2
Cover
Erosion-control efforts in Nepal. In fiscal 1987, the Bank announced that it would more than double its volume of lending for environmentally sound forestry projects within the next two years.
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, all its powers are vested in a board of governors, consisting of one governor for each member country. With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the governors of the Bank have delegated their powers to a board of executive directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are twenty-two executive directors; each director selects an alternate. As provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five directors are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock, and the rest are elected by the governors representing the other members.
The executive directors meet under the chairmanship of the president of the Bank. Formal votes are rare as, in practice, most decisions are reached by consensus. The executive directors are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank. They decide on Bank policy in the framework of the Articles of Agreement. They also decide on all loan and credit proposals.
The executive directors are also responsible for presentation to the board of governors at its annual meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other matter that, in their judgment, requires submission to the board of governors. Matters may be submitted to the governors at the annual meetings or at any time between annual meetings.
The executive board exercises its authority, under the Articles of Agreement, in three general areas: (a) By its annual oversight of the financial and operating programs, and administrative budgets (see Table 1-1), it determines the allocation of financial and staff resources for the coming year; (b) by reviewing specific policy proposals, either annually (for example, the allocation of net income, staff compensation, the research program) or periodically (for example, the Bank's capital requirements, financial policies, lending terms, sectoral priorities), it determines the direction of Bank policies; and (c) by reviewing evaluations of com-
pleted Bank projects and of the Bank's experience in individual sectors and with particular policies, and by considering proposals for future evaluation activities, the board ensures that the Bank and member countries are able to benefit from the lessons of experience.
% # *
In fulfilling its oversight of the IBRD and IDA financial and operating programs, the executive board completed the mid-year review of the 1987 fiscal year financial and operating programs and administrative budgets and, in the process, reviewed reports on IBRD disbursements and quick-disbursing adjustment loans. Before the end of the fiscal year, they approved a fiscal 1988 borrowing program of about $11 billion and, early in fiscal 1988, set IBRD lending for fiscal 1988 at between $14 billion and $15.5 billion, with an IDA lending program of SDR3.2 billion.
Early in fiscal 1987, following up on their fiscal 1986 decision that net income prospects and loan charges should continue to be kept under close review, the executive directors completed a detailed review of these subjects and agreed that IBRD and IDA loan charges would be kept unchanged, pending further board review.
In other major financial-policy actions, the executive board considered the report of the executive directors' Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank Capital, established in fiscal 1984 at the initiative of the directors, and approved its recommendations to take effect on June 30, 1987.1 The executive directors reviewed the progress made under the Bank's loan-sales pilot program and approved an authorization for the private sale of additional portions of Bank loans in an amount of up to $500 million.2 They approved a new investment authority involving major changes in the management of the Bank's liquidity portfolio, with the objectives of improving the market
liquidity of the portfolio and better managing the market risk that is inherent in every investment decision. The executive board decided that the changes would be introduced over a twelve-month period and that a board review of the experience with the new investment authority would be scheduled for no later than January 31, 1988.3 The executive board also considered a policy paper on the financial aspects of all guarantees issued by the Bank.4
With the increasing emphasis on structural-adjustment lending in the Bank's operations, the executive directors considered a report, prepared by the operations evaluation department (OED), reviewing the experience gained to date with this type of lending.5
Constituted as the Committee of the Whole, the directors discussed a number of policy framework papers on the adjustment-policy objectives and actions of a number of developing countries that had been prepared jointly by the respective governments concerned and the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). They also participated in the discussions relating to the preparation of the Bank-Fund symposium on growth-oriented adjustment programs and the symposium itself.6
The executive directors closely followed the progress on the eighth replenishment of IDA resources (IDA-8). Those negotiations were formally completed by the IDA deputies in December 1986 in Rome, and the report and the draft resolution setting out the main features of the agreement on size, burden-sharing among donors, allocations, and terms was approved by the executive board in February 1987. The draft resolution was forwarded to the board of governors, whose endorsement was received in June 1987. In addition, the executive directors undertook a thorough review of IDA's financial policies in March 1987. As part of this review, they agreed that IDA credit charges should be maintained at existing levels. The executive directors also approved the reduction in IDA credit maturities that had been recommended by the IDA deputies.7
The executive directors continued to give special attention to policies and actions to restore growth and development in sub-Saharan Africa through the board's normal procedures for project and structural-adjustment lending and through their consideration, as the Committee of the Whole, of the policy framework papers for the countries in the region. They also received a progress report on a forthcoming Bank report on long-term perspectives in sub-Saharan Africa, expected to be completed early in 1988. As in past Bank reports, the new study will emphasize the critical importance of macro management and
policy issues more generally; in addition, it will give greater attention to the basic constraints on development and to the long-term perspective for sub-Saharan Africa. The focus of the study will be the sustainability of the current process of policy reforms and the sustainability of growth over the long term for countries that continue to commit themselves to policy reforms.
During the course of the year, the management of the Bank periodically reported to the board on progress in establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), the convention of which was developed in a series of meetings of the board and the Committee of the Whole in fiscal 1985 and fiscal 1986.8
The executive directors also review evaluations of completed projects and consider proposals for future evaluation activities by giving particular attention to the work of the OED. The director-general, operations evaluation, is directly responsible to the executive directors and is outside the regular staff structure of the Bank, but is administratively linked to the president of the Bank. The executive directors, as a board, consider from time to time a representative sampling of OED reports. The executive directors annually consider the report of the director-general, the work program and manpower budget of the operations evaluation department, and the OED review of project performance audit results.9
Also under review during the year was the mid-way point in the five-year plan of the Economic Development Institute (EDI). Ways by which the EDI can strengthen the effect of its activities are detailed on page 58.
In addition to formal, regular board meetings, the executive directors also meet as the Committee of the Whole to discuss certain matters prior to their submission to the board for formal action. They also meet informally as frequently as required. Periodically, the executive directors hold seminars with Bank management that permit more informal discussion than can take place at regular board meetings.
Topics covered in this manner in fiscal 1987 included: the World Bank's environmental
activities;10 agricultural mechanization—issues and policies; financing health services in developing countries—an agenda for reform; management of the Bank's liquidity portfolio; modalities of the general capital increase; report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank Capital; fiscal 1988 priorities and budget policy directions; and briefings on fiscal 1988 budget proposals.
Joint Audit Committee. The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the shareholders of the Bank in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1987, the committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the IBRD, IDA, and the IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the committee helps to provide assurance to the Bank's executive directors that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
The committee also oversees the work of the operations evaluation and internal auditing departments. It, therefore, reviewed the work programs of the two departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to project performance audit reports to determine how well the operations evaluation department carries out its assessment of individual projects. The committee itself reviewed and identified reports giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the executive directors. Through another subcommittee, the committee examined a number of internal audit reports to determine the adequacy and efficiency of the Bank's internal audit.
Of continuing concern to the committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the executive directors in order that the board may discharge its responsibilities properly with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the board is reviewed periodically by the committee.
The committee provides a continuous channel—it usually meets once a month—through which the internal and external auditors can communicate with the executive directors should the need arise. The committee consists of eight executive directors who are appointed by the board for a term of two years after each regular election of executive directors. Since
November 1985, Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan has served as chairman of the committee.
The Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters (CODAM). The CODAM was established in 1968. It considers, makes recommendations, and reports its findings to the executive directors for their decision on matters of administrative policies relating to executive directors, alternates, advisors, and their staff. Its terms of reference involve it in a wide spectrum of administrative matters and charge it with responsibility for assisting executive directors in the formulation of policies, changes in existing policies, and implementation of such policies. The committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the executive directors of the International Monetary Fund. In its recommendations, the committee tries to maintain a balance between the organization and administrative objectives of the institution and the unique circumstances faced by the directors in discharging their responsibilities.
The committee meets as frequently as necessary, normally about once a month. The membership consists of six executive directors appointed for a term of two years after each regular election of the executive directors. Since February 1987, Mourad Benachenhou has served as its chairman.
Committee on Staff' Compensation Issues. The Committee on Staff Compensation Issues was established in July 1980. Its terms of reference mandate it to keep under continuing review and, where appropriate, to advise the executive directors on questions of staff compensation policy and to maintain close liaison on all such matters with the executive directors of the IMF, bearing in mind the need for general parallelism between the two institutions.
Since its inception, the committee has addressed a wide range of topics. These include: issues arising from a review of expatriate benefits; modifications in the financial-assistance program; principles of staff employment (subsequently adopted by the executive directors), as well as draft rules implementing them on sensitive issues such as separation and demotion; options for "intervening-year" salary review; the findings, implications, and options resulting from the 1984 major compensation review conducted by an outside consulting firm; issues arising from a joint Bank-IMF review of their pension plans; terms of reference for a joint Bank-IMF committee of exec-
Detaiis of fiscal 1987 environmental initiatives may be found on page 31.
utive directors to review certain elements of the staff-compensation system; issues arising from the Bank's job-grading program, and, in fiscal 1987, issues arising from the reorganization of the Bank.
The committee consists of eight executive directors who are appointed by the executive directors for a term of two years after each regular election of executive directors. Since March 1986, C. R. Krishnaswamy Rao Sahib has served as chairman of the committee.
Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors on Staff Compensation. The Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors on Staff Compensation consists of four executive directors of the Bank, including three members of the Committee on Staff Compensation Issues, and four executive directors of the IMF. The committee was established in November 1984 to review those aspects of the compensation systems of the Bank and Fund that were called into question during the discussions on staff compensation in the boards of the two institutions in June and July of 1984. Since February 1986, Guenter Grosche (IMF) has served as chairman of the committee. The committee's final report is expected before the end of fiscal year 1988.
Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank Capital. This committee was established in September 1983 to analyze the implications of alternative solutions to the valuation of the Bank's capital with a view to facilitating an agreed solution. The committee consisted of seven executive directors. The committee's mandate terminated in October 1986, when the directors adopted the recommendations contained in the committee's final report.
Article II, Section 2(a) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement defines the Bank's authorized capital in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944.
In April 1978, the preexisting basis for translating the term, "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1944" (the 1944 dollar), into any currency was abolished as a result of the coming into effect of the Second Amendment of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (the Fund) and the concurrent repeal of Section 2 of the Par Value Modification Act of the United States.
The ad hoc committee recommended, and the executive directors decided, to resolve the issue as follows:
1. The executive directors decided the question of interpretation in accordance with Article IX of the Bank's Articles of Agreement by reading the words "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944"
to mean the special drawing right (SDR), as the SDR was valued in terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being 1.20635 United States dollars for one SDR.
2. Concurrently with that interpretation, and, as an integral part of the resolution of the issue, the executive directors decided:
• that capital payment obligations under Article II, Sections 5, 7, and 8 of the Articles of Agreement would be determined in accordance with the value of the SDR in terms of United States dollars as stated in paragraph 1;
• that, to avoid negative effects on the Bank's capital in case the SDR substantially appreciates against the United States dollar, they would review the adequacy of the Bank's capital every three years, or at any time in the intervening periods when, in their judgment, such a review becomes warranted, with a view to recommending to the board of governors appropriate measures to restore its value;
• to resume maintenance-of-value payments to the Bank on the basis of the provisions of Article II, Section 9, of the Articles of Agreement regarding significant changes in the foreign-exchange value of members' currencies measured against the standard of value of the Bank's capital established in paragraph 1;
• to adopt a policy under which the Bank will make maintenance-of-value payments to members whose currency has significantly appreciated;
• to establish maintenance-of-value positions with respect to the local-currency portion of all capital subscriptions (except such local currency as shall have been repurchased pursuant to the provisions of Article II, Section 9(a), of the Articles of Agreement), as of June 30, 1987, and every June 30, thereafter, and to implement maintenance-of-value settlements in accordance with detailed procedures agreed by the executive directors as part of their decision; and
• to express the value of the capital stock of the Bank on the basis of the unit of value referred to in paragraph 1.
These decisions took effect on June 30, 1987.
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices (CEBP). The executive directors approved the establishment of the CEBP in November 1986. The purpose of the committee is to examine those aspects of the Bank's business processes, administrative policies, standards, and budget practices that signifi-
cantly affect the cost effectiveness of its operations. It may also consider specific issues that arise in the course of the budget discussions of the Committee of the Whole. The committee takes into account the work of the Joint Audit Committee with a view to avoiding duplication. During its first meetings in January 1987, the committee decided upon a two-phase work program. The first phase focused on the Bank's use of consultants and resident missions. In a report to the executive directors, the CEBP recommended that managers base hiring decisions on full costs and that qualitative hiring guidelines be developed and promulgated for the use of managers to achieve consistency throughout the Bank. Although the committee accepted the present level of
consultant use, it did make a number of recommendations to achieve a greater degree of openness, transparency, and objectivity in selecting and hiring consultants. The "consultant roster," containing over 6.000 names, should include assessments of consultant performance, and the roster itself should be more widely disseminated and used as an integral part of the selection process. In addition, managers were encouraged by the CEBP to continue to strive for a wider geographical representation when hiring consultants. The topics subject to study during the second phase were to be chosen at a later time to conform with events arising from the reorganization of the Bank. The CEBP consists of eight executive directors. Frank Potter is the chairman.
Section Two
The World Bank—Fiscal Year 1987
In September 1986, Barber B. Conable, president of the World Bank, outlined the five priorities that are to guide the Bank in the years of his stewardship. They are to maintain and strengthen the Bank:
• as a central force for development and in the struggle against poverty;
• as a major influence for economic adjustment and growth, for debt rescheduling, and trade liberalization;
• as a steady source of project lending— especially in advancing agriculture beyond subsistence levels;
• as a sensitive advocate of the importance of population, environmental, and women's concerns in the developing world and in the development process; and
• as a responsive institution, quick to adjust to new needs and to adapt its strength to new challenges.
The Struggle against Poverty
In the 1970s, the Bank took the lead in a global effort to lessen the pervasiveness of poverty in the developing countries: Support was provided for primary education, population and health services, integrated rural and urban development, and nutrition. A poverty orientation was introduced into other Bank operations, as well, through attempts to ensure that the poor were a significant proportion of the beneficiaries in projects for agriculture, water supply, and small-scale industry.
In the 1980s, those efforts continued. But, faced with global recession and worsening terms of trade, many developing countries, often with encouragement from the Bank, shifted their priorities to emphasize the development of adjustment programs that could restore or maintain growth in their economies.
Adjustment, however, has proven to be a longer road than had originally been envisaged for some countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and those that are highly indebted. In the absence of needed resources on appropriate terms, these countries will find it difficult to maintain, let alone expand, education and health services, nutritional programs, and improved water facilities and shelter for the poor.
The Bank is responding to the reemerging concerns about poverty alleviation by putting into practice lessons learned from more than a decade of operational work in this area. Much has been learned during that time. In the context of the struggle against poverty, the Bank now puts much greater weight on prices, markets, and agricultural research and technology than it did, for instance, in its earlier work on rural development. In the social sectors, more weight is given to practical financing issues, including the links between overall fiscal soundness and the adequacy of financing for social programs, and the need to charge for some services, particularly those that go primarily to the more affluent.
In broader terms, the Bank's approach today-is to integrate the core of the poverty concerns of the 1970s into the growth and market-oriented concerns that have marked the first half of the 1980s. Accordingly, as experience with designing adjustment programs has evolved, the Bank is now giving more direct attention to addressing the social cost of adjustment.'
At its April 1987 meeting, the Development Committee welcomed recent Bank initiatives to impart a greater poverty focus in its operations and to strengthen its support for the humanitarian aid programs of nongovernmental organizations. (See box on page 16.)
Specifically, these initiatives include:
• Strengthening the use of the entire Bank country-assistance program to address problems of poverty, particularly through operations in agriculture, education, health, population, and urban development.
• The establishment, in December 1986, of a special "poverty task force," composed of senior staff, to review the Bank's poverty work and propose new activities. Its recommendations for detailed strengthening of the Bank's poverty programs will be fully discussed with the executive directors of the Bank in fiscal 1988.
See. for instance, the box on page 55 that describes the design of the second structural-adjustment credit to Senegal.
The Development Committee
Established in October 1974, the Development Committee is known formally as the Joint Ministerial Committee of the Boards of Governors of the Bank and the Fund on the Transfer of Real Resources to Developing Countries. The Committee's members, usually ministers of finance, are appointed in turn for successive periods of two years by one of the countries or groups of countries represented on the Bank's or the International Monetary Fund's (the Fund) executive board.
The Committee is required to advise and report to the boards of governors of the Bank and the Fund on all aspects of the broad questions of the transfer of real resources to developing countries and to make suggestions for consideration by those concerned regarding the implementation of its conclusions.
At its twenty-ninth meeting, held in Washington, D.C. in September 1986, the Committee, under the chairmanship of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, considered the problems of the heavily indebted middle-income countries and recognized that substantial additional efforts continued to be required by all the major participants—indebted and industrial countries, commercial banks, and international financial and development institutions. The Committee welcomed the initiatives taken by the Bank and the Fund to help these countries, adding that the significant expansion in Bank lending for structural and sectoral reform provided evidence of the Bank's ability to move rapidly and substantially in support of reform efforts.
Assurance was reiterated that lack of capital should not be a constraint on increases in the Bank's quality lending, and agreement was reached that a substantial general capital increase would be required if quality lending materialized as expected. As for the low-income countries, the Committee expressed its concern over the slow growth of official development assistance (ODA), encouraged donor countries to maximize efforts to increase their ODA budgets, and gave encouragement to an IDA replenishment level of $12 billion or more.
At its April 1987 meeting, also held in Washington, D.C, this time under the chairmanship of B. T. G. Chidzero, the Committee reasserted the central role of the Bank and the Fund in the promotion of growth-oriented adjustment programs and the mobilization of resources from official and private sources and reaffirmed its previous agreement on the need for a substantial general capital increase for the Bank should its quality lending continue to materialize.
The Committee welcomed the intentions of the official creditors in the Paris Club to work toward realistic rescheduling terms for the poorest nations undertaking strong growth-oriented adjustment programs. It also welcomed the agreement on a $12.4 billion replenishment of IDA resources and stressed that larger resources would be needed to complement IDA and Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa programs to support policies and programs for higher growth in low-income countries. The importance of poverty-alleviation programs was stressed, and the Committee welcomed recent Bank initiatives in this area.
The importance of environmental protection in pursuing growth and development was also stressed, and Bank initiatives in increasing emphasis on environmental protection were welcomed.
Development Committee members also took note of the current trade environment and welcomed the inclusion of agricultural trade in the Uruguay Trade Round of multilateral trade negotiations. The Committee, adding that liberalizing industrial protection also warranted urgent attention, asked the Bank and the Fund to prepare a report on the effect of the industrial policies of the developed countries.
Reviewing the depressed state of commodity markets, as well as the unfavorable prospects for most commodities, the Committee called on multilateral institutions to assist in broadening the export base of countries dependent on commodities and on the Bank and the Fund, specifically, to prepare options for the meeting of the Committee in September 1987.
• Increased analysis of the social effects of adjustment in both operational work and Bank research.
• Assistance to governments in designing structural-adjustment and sectoral-adjustment programs that, to the extent possible, protect the poor, notably through improvements in the efficiency and targeting of social expenditures.
• Increased collaboration with other agencies, both official and nongovernmental, in addressing poverty concerns in the context of adjustment by supporting compensatory nutrition and employment programs for the poor.
Collaboration with nongovernmental organizations, in particular, is being stepped up; nongovernmental organizations are now involved directly in more than 100 Bank projects covering areas such as urban upgrading, low-cost shelter, agricultural cooperatives, village water supplies, and primary health care.
In fiscal 1987, IBRD and IDA lending to the poorest countries—those with a per capita gross national product of less than $400 in 1985 United States dollars—totaled $6,430 million (IBRD: $3,253 million; IDA: $3,177 million), up $545 million from the previous year, or some 9 percent.
Economic Adjustment and Growth, Debt Rescheduling, and Trade Liberalization
Economic adjustment and growth; debt rescheduling. Two groups of countries have been particularly hurt by the recent economic climate: those that are heavily indebted and the low-income countries of sub-Saharan Africa.
During fiscal 1987, the momentum of reform quickened, and many reform programs deepened, notwithstanding difficult political and social constraints. Despite these efforts, the international economic environment continued its deterioration. The Bank responded to the needs of adjusting countries by supporting reforms through structural-adjustment and sector-adjustment lending, through its project lending, and through increased efforts at aid coordination. (See Table 2-1.) In addition, staff time devoted to assistance to these countries substantially increased, the Bank's field presence expanded, as did assistance devoted to attempts at mobilizing external finance.
During the past fiscal year, Bank commitments to the twelve highly indebted countries listed in Table 2-1 totaled S6.5 billion, up from $6.0 billion in fiscal 1986. Disbursements to them also rose rapidly, from $4.0 billion in fiscal year 1986, to $5.9 billion in fiscal 1987. Commitments to the fifteen countries on the list of highly indebted countries compiled for purposes of the "Baker Plan," as outlined by James A. Baker III, United States Secretary of the Treasury, in Seoul in 1985 (those listed in Table 2-1 plus Bolivia, Peru, and Venezuela), have been in excess of $33 billion during the period fiscal 1981-87. Of that amount, almost half has been committed in the past three fiscal years alone. Disbursements, too, have accelerated as a result of the quick-disbursing nature of much of the lending.
Debt is a major obstacle that must be cleared from the development path to ensure progress in developing countries in agriculture, health, education, transportation, sanitation, resource management, population growth, the role of women, and many other vitally important sectors. There is still a long way to go, however, before the conditions necessary for sustained growth are established.
The unfavorable world economic climate— slow growth in industrial countries, rising protectionism, increasingly adverse terms of trade for developing countries, uncertain currency markets, and volatility in interest-rate movements—has been a principal cause of the generally slow growth of the highly indebted middle-income countries.
Adjustment programs involve difficult choices for governments, and political support can-
not be sustained unless adequate finance needed to implement these programs is made available.
The overall picture on capital flows remains disappointing: Strong financial support for adjusting countries from the Bank and the Fund has not been accompanied by any significant new financing from commercial banks. Aside from commitments made in 1986 to Mexico and Nigeria, very little new lending has been directed to the highly indebted countries.
In addition, multiyear rescheduling agreements have not evolved as anticipated into a financial underpinning for medium-term adjustment programs. It is all the more necessary, therefore, that efforts aimed at ameliorating the debt problem be integrated and that the entire arsenal of available instruments be employed—increased multilateral lending to the adjusting nations, cofinancing on a greater scale, enhanced efforts to coordinate aid, and the development of efforts by commercial banks and debtor countries to choose from a "menu" of alternative negotiating procedures and financing techniques for providing continuing support to debtor countries.
The Bank, together with the Fund and other multilateral institutions, has a central role in promoting growth-oriented adjustment programs and in mobilizing resources in their support. It remains committed to that active leadership role. In addition to developing effective growth-oriented programs and greatly increasing flows of resources to the heavily indebted countries, the Bank, together with the International Finance Corporation, has continued to assist interested borrowers in developing debt-equity swaps and any other arrangements in which it can be helpful. (See box on page 18.) There are limits, however, to the scope of this approach. During 1986, for instance, trading in Latin American and other restructured debt probably amounted to but 1 percent to 2 percent of the outstanding debt of the major developing-country debtors. The Bank is prepared to lead in seeking new approaches to direct private-investment promotion in developing countries through the IFC and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency. The Bank continues to encourage greater use of multiyear rescheduling arrangements, increased export-credit agency lending, nondebt-creating transfers, and any other actions designed to reach these goals. But, as the ministers from developed and developing countries stressed during the April 1987 meeting of the Development Committee, all parties should play their part.
The picture in sub-Saharan Africa, too, remains disappointing. Twenty-five countries in
Debt-conversion Schemes
In 1986, debt-conversion schemes, a form of relief that involves converting external debt into domestic debt or equity, began to gain promin-ance. These schemes are far from offering a complete solution to debt-servicing problems, but they can contribute to encouraging foreign investment, provide a channel for the return of flight capital, and reduce the foreign-exchange needs of servicing the country's external debt.
There are two basic types of debt-conversion schemes: the exchange of foreign-currency debt for domestic-currency debt and the exchange of foreign-currency debt for local currency that can be used for capital investment or for the purchase of equity shares in domestic companies.
In both cases, the foreign investor uses foreign currency to purchase a country's debt from a foreign creditor (typically, a commercial bank) at a discount. He then negotiates with the agency responsible for managing the conversion scheme in the debtor country, usually the central bank, to exchange the debt for local currency or local debt. The investor's right to repatriate capital invested in this way and to receive interest or profit remittances in foreign currency is governed by the direct investment laws of the host country, subject to any special amendments introduced under the conversion scheme. Some countries restrict debt conversions by nonresidents to equity types of investment. Several countries have developed their own programs that allow investors to convert foreign-currency claims into domestic-currency assets.
• Chile was among the first to introduce comprehensive changes in its foreign-investment laws to allow for debt conversion. The Central Bank's Compendium of Rules for International Exchange provides for the unrestricted use of the local-currency proceeds of debt conversion by resident investors. Resident investors gain no right under the scheme to remit the returns abroad. In the external investor's case, however, capital can be repatriated after ten years, and remittances of dividends are allowed after the fourth year at a rate not to exceed 25 percent a year.
As of the end of January 1987, debt conversion amounted to almost $1.6 billion, of which some $600 million accrued from transactions by foreign investors. An additional $1 billion is expected to be converted during the remainder of 1987.
• Since 1982, debt conversion in Mexico has taken the form of debt-for-equity swaps. Though initially restricted to foreign-bank investors, foreign companies have recently been allowed up to 15 percent ownership in Mexican companies in exchange for an equivalent amount of foreign-debt repayment. Repatriation of capital and profit remittances under these agreements are prohibited until January 1998, as provided for in the recent debt-reorganization accord with commercial banks. As of the end of January 1987, Mexico had completed over seventy debt-for-equity operations,
totaling $1 billion. Debt conversion for the remainder of 1987 is expected to add another $1 billion.
• In the late 1970s, Brazil encouraged debt-for-equity swaps by providing tax advantages to investors, with some tangible results. In 1983, the Brazi-lan government introduced cash payments, ranging between 5 percent to 10 percent of the face value of the debt, to investors involved in the conversion to equity of principal or interest on investment loans or long-term import financing.
At end 1986, debt-for-equity swaps stood at $2.1 billion. Swaps during 1986 amounted to $300 million. An additional $300 million is expected to be swapped in 1987.
In addition to these countries, two other Latin American countries, Ecuador and Venezuela, have enacted legislation that allows for the exchange of foreign debt for local debt or equity. To date, no significant amounts have been converted. The recent debt-reorganization agreement between Argentina and its creditor banks also provides for debt conversion. In the Argentine scheme, there must be a dollar-for-dollar matching of the nominal amount of the swap with new investment funds, and these funds must be invested in nonfinancial sectors.
• In 1980, Turkey enacted legislation for settling $2.5 billion of arrears on suppliers' credits not guaranteed in the creditor country. Creditors could either opt for foreign currency under a deferred-payment plan or they could opt for payment on demand in local currency. Local currency obtained under this arrangement could be used to undertake new investments in joint ventures, or to increase equity shares in companies in tourism, industry, and other sectors. Over $2 billion in arrears were converted to local-currency assets.
• Several other countries also allow, or are in the process of enacting guidelines for, debt-conversion schemes. The Philippines provides for the early repayment, in local currency, of public-sector and private-sector obligations under a recent commercial-bank debt-reorganization accord. A total of $78 million had been converted as of June 1987. In addition to debt-for-equity swaps, the central bank is offering Philippine Investment Notes (PINs). These are noninterest-bearing notes, freely transferable and denominated in foreign currency maturing six years from the date of issue. These notes can be redeemed, however, at anytime prior to maturity in local currency, the proceeds of which can be used to fund equity investments under the debt-to-equity conversion programs.
' Nigeria recently issued promissory notes repayable in local currency in exchange for arrears on trade-related external debt not guaranteed in the creditor country. The notes can be redeemed on demand by negotiation, and the proceeds invested in local companies. If the investment takes place in a sector deemed by the government as being of national priority, it will be awarded the same treatment for repatriation of capital and dividends as that afforded to direct foreign investment. Some S70 million has been converted into local-currency assets.
the region, accounting for about three quarters of sub-Saharan Africa's population and gross domestic product (GDP), are either implementing or are close to initiating, major programs of structural reform. Both the depth of the reforms in place and the persistence of policymakers in implementing them arc major achievements of African governments.
However, the institututional and political constraints, the social costs, and the financial requirements to sustain the reform process continued to mount during the past year. Resistance to further reforms is hardening in some countries, especially in the face of stagnating or declining per capita consumption.
The ability of any country to persist in its adjustment efforts over an extended period of time depends on its achieving tangible results with regard to growth rates and consumption. However, a review by the Bank of the medium-term prospects of low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa that are implementing adjustment programs has shown that several will face growth rates in GDP below the level of population growth during 1987-90 and many will have stagnant or declining per capita consumption. Substantial additional resources are urgently needed, particularly, but not exclusively, for the debt-distressed countries among them.
The gravity of the debt problem in the region can be illustrated by the fact that, for low-income sub-Saharan Africa, the debt-service
ratio rose by almost half between 1980 and 1985 and would have been much higher had it not been for a large number of reschedulings and, in some cases, a build-up of arrears.
This situation is not expected to improve, and dealing with the debt-service problem will require new flows of aid and/or innovative debt-relief measures of some sort. The Bank is ready to move forward with consultative-group meetings that bring creditors and borrowers together, that forge economic-adjustment programs and agreements on the resources needed to support such programs. More than twenty African nations have received Bank assistance in adjusting their economies. The Bank will continue to advise them in appropriate economic reforms of their choice and in the provision of resources needed to make them effective.
In their communique following the conclusion of the June 1987 economic summit in Venice, the leaders of seven industrial nations, as well as the president of the Commission of the European Communities, stated that consideration should be given to the possibility of applying lower interest rates to the existing debt of sub-Saharan countries that are undertaking adjustment efforts, and that agreement should be reached, especially in the Paris Club, on longer repayment and grace periods to ease the debt-service burden.
Formal extension of Paris Club rescheduling would be an important and helpful initiative,
notwithstanding the fact that the effect of the extension would not be felt until after 1992.
The summit communique also welcomed the proposal by the managing director of the International Monetary Fund for a significant increase in the resources of its structural-adjustment facility over the three-year period beginning on January 1, 1988.
Late in fiscal 1987, the president of the Bank reported that he and the Fund's managing director would invite representatives of the industrial (G-10) countries to a meeting in Paris in early July to start some preliminary and informal discussions on the economic situation and requirements of the heavily indebted countries of sub-Saharan Africa. It is also envisaged that consideration would be given at that meeting on steps that should be taken to provide the required debt relief and financial assistance to the most severely affected among this group of countries.
In fiscal 1987, IDA approved commitments of $914 million in support of the twenty low-income, sub-Saharan African countries that had borrowed funds in fiscal years 1986 and 1987 from the Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa. Commitments of an additional $421 million were made by the Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa. Another $789 million in IBRD commitments was approved in support of operations in Nigeria and Cote d'lvoire. IBRD commitments were also approved for operations in Cameroon, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Mauritius.
However, the resources available to low-income sub-Saharan countries from the eighth replenishment of IDA, which will cover the period fiscal 1988-90, will barely maintain the level of lending in real terms from IDA and the Special Facility combined. It is essential, therefore that donor assistance to these countries be increased substantially in support of these adjustment programs.
Trade liberalization. In mid September, 1986, the Contracting Parties of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) met at the ministerial level in Punta del Este, Uruguay, to discuss the launching of a new round of multilateral trade negotiations.
The economic backdrop against which the meeting took place was somber, marked as it was by stagnating trade and increasing protectionist pressures. Despite this setting, or perhaps because of it, the ministers were successful in resolving differences on key points of contention and reached agreement on an agenda for the new round, which will be more comprehensive than any previous round, as it includes negotiations not only on tariff and nontariff barriers, but, also, on such key issues
as treatment of agriculture and the inclusion of "new themes" such as intellectual property and investment. Agreement on negotiations in services was reached under a separate ministerial decision.
The World Bank attaches great importance to the new trade round, as trade liberalization is a crucial element in the growth-oriented strategies of developing countries. Export expansion is needed so that these countries, in particular, the heavily indebted ones, can secure the foreign exchange needed to finance imports essential for growth and to bring about a reduction in debt-service ratios.
The Bank has actively supported trade liberalization through its adjustment lending. In three quarters of its adjustment operations, the Bank has assisted its borrowers to undertake reforms involving the removal of all types of obstacles to trade.
But, as President Conable told the delegates to the GATT ministerial meeting, the Bank's encouragement of trade outreach and open markets in the developing world cannot be effective unless the developed world recognizes the benefit to both sides of the trade equation and supports openness for everyone.
At that meeting, the Bank announced that it planned to organize studies and seminars related to GATT so that developing countries participating in the negotiations might have as strong an informational base and analytical support as possible for pursuing their own interests in expanding multilateral trade.
A Source of Project Lending
Although lending for sector adjustment and structural adjustment has increased dramatically in recent years—from less than 10 percent of total lending during the period fiscal 1981-82 to 23 percent in fiscal 1987, the Bank remains a development institution that commits the majority of its funds in support of specific investment projects. That emphasis will continue, for basic investments are the foundations to sustained growth.
The process of policy reform and adjustment has been of a longer duration than at first anticipated, and global economic recovery has not been as robust as originally hoped for when it began, and then accelerated, in 1983 and 1984, respectively. If only global recovery can be both strengthened and sustained, immediate issues of stabilization can become less critical than they are today, and the Bank's role in support of adjustment and policy reform is likely to evolve in the direction of enlarged support for new investment.
But, if the Bank is to be positioned not only to enlarge that support, but also, to expand, as
envisaged under the Baker Plan, its lending in support of medium-term adjustment programs, it must have available the lending authority and financial resources that will be required.
Discussions on a General Capital Increase, "Headroom"
Both developed and developing countries, through the Development Committee, have called for growth in World Bank lending for the period through 1990 and have agreed that, if, as expected, growth in quality lending materializes, a substantial general increase in the capital of the IBRD (commonly referred to as a GC1, or general capital increase) will be required.
In fiscal 1987, discussions continued in the Bank's executive board on steps needed to reach agreement on a proposal for a GO that would ensure that the Bank's lending program is not constrained by the lack of capital. Those discussions will continue in fiscal 1988, a year in which the Bank's lending may temporarily exceed its sustainable level of lending (SLL).2 In practice, the SLL has not been treated as a rigid ceiling on the Bank's level of commitments, but rather, as a proximate indicator of when decisions on new capital are required.
The SLL is not, however, the best measure of near-term changes in capital adequacy, for the focus of its calculation is based on two long-term projections, neither of which has been greatly affected by the recent shifts in exchange rates.3
In the near-term context, it is necessary to pay attention, also, to the available "headroom" for lending. Headroom, defined as the difference between the statutory limit on lending and the volume of loans that are disbursed and outstanding, describes an existing situation. The headroom increases whenever the Bank's capital, reserves, or surplus increases. Conversely, it decreases whenever loan balances go up.
During the eighteen-month period ending June 30, 1987, the IBRD's headroom shrank from S18.8 billion to S14.1 billion, the result mainly (by almost 75 percent) of increases in loan balances caused by the strengthening of major nondollar currencies.4 Should those currencies further appreciate significantly, the IBRD's available headroom would decrease, which could limit the Bank's projected levels of net disbursements in the absence of remedial measures.
Both measures—the SLL and headroom— have roles to play in assessing the adequacy of IBRD capital. Both will figure prominently in discussions in fiscal 1988 on ways to ensure that no impediment is placed on the successful
implementation of the Bank's future lending program.
Population, the Environment, and Women in Development
The issues of population, the environment, and women in development have a high priority on the Bank's current and future agenda. High population growth rates strain natural and financial resources; environmental degradation threatens the sustainability of development, especially in poor countries that are heavily dependent on a declining base of natural resources; and women, as a group, are among the poorest of the world's poor—yet they do two thirds of the world's work.
Bank initiatives in all three areas intensified during fiscal 1987: A report on environmental initiatives may be found on page 31; Bank activities in the field of women's concerns are detailed on page 30 and in the box on page 80.
The Reorganization of the Bank
The strength of the Bank is accounted for by the broad support it receives from its shareholder governments and by its dedicated and skilled staff.
The opportunities and challenges facing the Bank today make it imperative that support for the Bank by developing and developed countries alike remains firm and that Bank staff are deployed to meet the changing needs of its
: The SLL is the maximum volume of annual IBRD commitments that, under certain assumptions, can be sustained indefinitely without causing disbursed and outstanding loans to rise beyond the limit established in the Articles of Agreement (100 percent of the Bank's unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus.) Using standard assumptions, the SLL is currently $14.2 billion.
' Prior to the decision interpreting the standard of value for IBRD shares, the projection of the SLL was based on the assumption of SDR100.000 per share, or $120,635 per share, whichever was less. The strengthening of nondollar currencies has had the effect of increasing the value of capital up to the $120,635 limit. The second long-term projection—that of disbursed loans, was affected by exchange-rate changes, but the effect was less pronounced in the longer term than in the near term. The reason is that, in SLL calculations, only loans already disbursed are affected by the exchange rates assumed, and such exchange rate-sensitive loan balances decline during the projection period. SLL projections assume that all shares in IBRD capital will be fully subscribed in the future and that reserves will grow to a level of up to 15 percent of disbursed loans. However, over S8 billion of existing shares remain unsubscribed, and the level of reserves is currently less than 10 percent of disbursed loans.
4 As a result of the executive directors1 decision in October 1986 interpreting the standard of value of IBRD shares, IBRD capital is now valued at S120.635 per share. Thus, when exchange rates change, the dollar value of loans changes, but the dollar value of capital does not.
borrowing member countries. The Bank and its borrowers are facing major challenges in a number of areas:
• Today's increasingly interdependent world has heightened the importance to developing countries of effective macroeconomic management and a sound policy environment. The Bank must be in a position to respond organizationally to the changing needs of borrowers for policy advice, aid coordination, and financial assistance.
• Sustainable growth relies more on people than mere transfers of technology. The Bank must respond organizationally in a way that can best assist its member countries in the development of their human, as well as physical, resources.
• The Bank's borrowers are operating in a more demanding intellectual and policy environment than ever before. The Bank must find ways to best fill the existing gaps in the knowledge needed for an overall understanding of development strategies.
• Development progress is increasingly dependent on the ability of the Bank and its borrowers to grasp the interdependence of development problems and to integrate macro-economic and sectoral problems. The Bank must, therefore, be structured to reflect the changing emphasis from specific investments in productive capacity to adjustment lending.
• In an environment in which private capital flows to middle-income countries have declined sharply and in which levels of official development assistance from industrial-country donors have stagnated, the Bank must respond to calls to provide a leadership role in donor coordination, cofinancing, and resource mobilization.
The Bank's fundamental mission—to mobilize the will and resources of the rich and poor alike in the global battle against poverty—has remained constant, and the Bank has remained an institution supported by its developed-country and developing-country shareholders because it has been able to meet the challenges to that mission that have come from the ever-changing economic environment of the past four decades. Policies and strategies have been adapted to meet the challenges of the 1980s and beyond. In fiscal 1987, the institution also adapted through reorganization so that it might realize its full potential in meeting those challenges.
The opportunity to strengthen significantly the Bank's organizational responsiveness in delivering development assistance to its borrowers was the guiding purpose behind the reorganization and is the one that the new structure will serve. At the same time, the new
organization has also been tailored to improve working relationships, management processes, professional incentives, and the Bank's culture so that all staff are part of a productive, rewarding, and fulfilling experience in the field of development.
The new organization seeks to strengthen Bank responsiveness by achieving an effective integration of the work of the Bank; by simplifying and streamlining the institution's activities; by clarifying decisionmaking responsibilities and reducing the number of decision points, clearances, and approvals; and by maximizing delegation of responsibility and accountability of line managers.
In October 1986, the president of the Bank announced that an internally directed organizational review, with the assistance of professional management consultants, would be undertaken. In the wake of the review's findings that some sort of reorganization of the Bank was essential, three task forces, coordinated by a steering committee and operating in three different functional areas, were formed in January 1987 to look at the Bank's organizational structure and present recommendations for possible change. Membership on the task forces was composed of Bank staff below the level of vice president; the nine-member steering committee included three from outside the Bank.
In March, the task forces presented their findings to the steering committee for its review, and in April, the steering committee's final report was in the hands of the president, who, after consultations with senior managers, executive directors, and the Bank's staff association, announced broad agreement with its findings and suggestions for change. With that announcement, implementation of the reorganization of the World Bank began.
Four senior vice presidential complexes were formed: for operations; for policy, planning, and research (PPR): for finance; and for administration.
• In the operations complex, two major objectives are to be met: responsiveness to the changed priorities of developing countries and a sharpening of the Bank's focus on its borrowing member countries. Increased responsiveness means that the Bank is now organized in a way that can support and reinforce the needs of its borrowers to achieve a better integration of macroeconomic and sectoral strategies, of real and financial variables, and of the domestic economy with the external economy. A sharpened country focus means that structural integration of ongoing country strategy and policy can be formalized at the country level.
Thus, the Bank's six regions have been consolidated into four (Africa; Asia; Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa; and Latin America and the Caribbean). Within the regions, country departments were created, which combine the functions formerly divided between programs and projects departments; regional technical departments were established; and key financial-assistance activities were strengthened by establishing a new vice presidency for financial intermediation services, in addition to the cofinancing vice presidency, which will also have an expanded role.
The objective of this new structure is to sharpen country focus by establishing integrated management teams for relatively small groups of countries, or, in some cases, single countries. These teams, in the form of country departments, will have full responsibility for strategy formulation, country dialogue, economic and sector work, lending, technical assistance, and all other Bank services to borrowing member countries.
A major part of the technical staff has been retained in regionwide groups. Regional technical departments are intended to be the centers of professional excellence. Designed to preserve the strengths of the former projects divisions, they will be large enough to allow subspecialization of skills and integration of the Bank's activities at the country level.
Operational management processes are also to be simplified and streamlined by unifying line management authority and reducing management layers. There are now only two management layers between the task manager and the regional vice president.
• The new senior vice presidential complex for policy, planning, and research consolidates the Bank's research and policy work that had previously been dispersed throughout the institution. New functions will not be created; instead, existing activities that are interrelated or complementary in nature will be integrated.
The PPR vice presidency was organized to achieve two principal objectives:
• to strengthen the Bank's capacity to provide intellectual leadership in the development field and to translate the results of research and other analytical work into tangible benefits for the Bank's client countries; and
• to enhance the Bank's capacity to manage strategic issues by linking the policy and research functions with strategic planning and budgeting activities.
Key to the success of this complex is the establishment of an effective working relationship with the operations complex. Such a relationship can ensure that the needs of operational staff for analytical and technical assist-
ance are met and that new strategies and approaches to policy developed by PPR staff are disseminated effectively and rapidly to operations staff.
• The Bank's financial complex remains relatively unchanged. Major changes relate only to a strengthening of key financial functions (whereby all risk-management activities have been consolidated, as well as activities related to IBRD capital and IDA replenishment requirements) and to clarifying accountability and control.
• The administration complex is characterized by substantial decentralization of its functions and wider use of market tests for efficiency and effectiveness. In this climate, it is envisaged that there will be greater delegation of authority, more acceptance of responsibility, clearer accountability as measured by results, and specific delineation of responsibility between managers and staff.
These extensive organizational changes have been designed:
• to permit development knowledge and its transmission to be brought to the forefront of the Bank's activities;
• to enhance the Bank's ability to chart clear institutional strategies, correctly framed through rigorous analysis of the risks and rewards involved;
• to allow the Bank to adjust to the changed priorities of the developing countries, through better integration of macroeconomic and sectoral strategies, of real and financial variables, and of the domestic economy with the external economy;
• to strengthen the Bank's client focus, involving substantial increases in the policy content of Bank lending of all types;
• to integrate country strategy and policy on an ongoing basis;
• to provide greater organizational promin-ance to the financial aspects of development and of the Bank's expanded role in providing assistance to borrowers in making effective use of capital and in developing broader, more efficient domestic financial sectors; and
• to strengthen efficiency in all aspects of the Bank's operations—demanded by the institution's basic mission and role in promoting development, one that is frequently called upon in advising borrowers about administrative efficiency.
In addition, the role of the president of the Bank has been both clarified in relation to the responsibilities of his senior managers and strengthened so that he can provide effective leadership to the institution. To support the president in integrating the Bank as a whole, a small advisory policy committee, to be chaired
by the president, has been set up. The committee provides a senior management forum for discussion and agreement on policy issues, institutional objectives, plans and programs, and other key issues that the president must decide in the course of managing the institution.
Implementation of the reorganization began in early May with the selection of the four senior vice presidents. By the end of the fiscal year, the selection process of most managers had been completed and that for the rest of Bank staff had begun. Implementation of the reorganization is scheduled to be completed by September 30, 1987.
In May 1987, the executive directors decided to authorize an amount of $101.3 million to cover the direct cost of the reorganization within a limit on redundancies of 390 staff members. The authorized supplementary budget includes specific components for office moves in connection with the reorganization, training, separation payments and benefits to staff leaving the Bank, and other direct costs for separating staff, such as outplacement assistance, counseling, and travel for job-search placement.
The president of the Bank will submit a full report to the executive board on the effects of the reorganization, including actual staff redundancies and overall associated costs, as soon as practicable, but, in any case, not later than October 31, 1987.
Highlights of Fiscal 1987
In fiscal year 1987, total commitments by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the Internationa) Development Association (IDA) totaled $17,674 million. That amount was $1,355 million higher than in the previous year, or some 8 percent above levels reached in fiscal 1986.
Commitments by the IBRD were $14,188 million, $1,009 million, or 7.7 percent, more than in fiscal 1986.
IDA commitments totaled $3,486 million, $346 million, or 11 percent, higher than in the year before.
If fiscal 1987 IBRD and IDA commitments were expressed in terms of fiscal 1986 dollars, they would amount to $17,409 million.
Lending for power ($3,017 million) comprised 17.1 percent of total commitments; agricultural lending, at $2,930 million, was at 16.6 percent; and nonproject lending ($2,437 million) amounted to 13.8 percent.
IBRD and IDA commitments, by lending instrument, are shown in Table 2-2.
Funds committed by the Special Facility for sub-Saharan   Africa   for   twelve projects
amounted to $421 million. Special joint financing amounted to $192 million.
The IBRD made 127 loans to thirty-nine countries; IDA's 108 approved credits were distributed among forty-four countries.
The three most active borrowers from the IBRD were India, Mexico, and Brazil; they borrowed $2,128 million, $1,678 million, and $1,262 million, respectively.
The three most active borrowers from the Association were India ($678 million for four projects), China ($556 million for three projects), and Bangladesh ($389 million for five projects).
Lending to countries with an annual per capita gross national product of below $400 (in 1985 dollars) was $6,430 million ($3,253 million by the IBRD and $3,177 million by IDA), up $545 million, or 9 percent, from fiscal 1986 totals.
Disbursements by the IBRD and IDA to countries stood at $14,471 million, up $3,053 million from last year. IBRD disbursements totaled $11,383 million, up $3,120 million, while IDA disbursements amounted to $3,088 million, a reduction of $67 million. The increase in IBRD disbursements reflected the faster-than-projected implementation of fast-disbursing adjustment loans approved in fiscal 1986, as well as a higher-than-projected share of such loans in the overall composition of IBRD commitments in fiscal 1987.
The net transfer of resources by the World Bank, including those from the IDA Special Fund, to current and past borrowers in fiscal 1987 was $2,416 million, compared with $2,846 million in fiscal 1986.
In fiscal 1987, 111 World Bank-assisted projects, or about 47 percent of the total, involved cofinancing funds. Those funds totaled $5,637 million, some $1,802 million above the figure for the previous year (see Table 2-7 on page 34).
Net income of the IBRD was $1,113 million, the third highest ever, and lower than last year's record total of $1,243 million.
The IBRD borrowed $9,321 million during the year, an amount some $1,179 million lower than in the previous year.
The IBRD's subscribed capital increased by $7,705 million in fiscal 1987. Of that amount, $2,420 million was the result of subscriptions authorized by the general capital increase approved in January 1980.
Kiribati joined the IBRD and IDA on September 29, 1986, and October 2, 1986, respectively, bringing the total membership of the IBRD to 151 and of the Association to 135. At the end of the year, action was pending on membership in IDA for Poland and Portugal, as well as for St. Kitts and Nevis.
At the end of fiscal 1987, total staff on regular and fixed-term appointment numbered 5,977, compared with 6,002 the year before. Of this number, 3,816 were higher-level staff, res-presenting 115 nationalities. The young professionals program continued to be successful in recruiting underrepresented nationalities and women. Of the twenty-four who reported for duty in fiscal 1987, five, or 21 percent, were women.
Adjustment Lending
In fiscal 1987, the share of quick-disbursing lending in support of adjustment efforts was 23 percent of total World Bank lending, or some $4,117.5 million. (See Table 2-3.) This figure was $1,018 million above the total for fiscal 1986, when the share of adjustment lending amounted to 19 percent.
The increase in such lending reflected the growing number of countries that have adopted effective adjustment programs, generally with considerable analytical support from the Bank.
This development was welcome, not only because the initiation of structural reforms is an essential step toward the resumption of self-sustaining growth, but, also, because the Bank is able to respond quickly and effectively to the priorities of its borrowers.
International Development Association
The IDA-8 replenishment negotiations. Negotiations for the eighth replenishment of resources of IDA (IDA-8) were launched with a meeting of IDA deputies in January 1986 in Paris. Resources contributed under IDA-8 will provide the Association with funds for credit commitments in the period fiscal 1988-90. Subsequent meetings were held on April 7-8, 1986, in Washington, D.C; on July 15-16, 1986. in Paris; on September 23-25. 1986, in Washington, D.C; and on December 15, 1986, in Rome. Deputies from thirty-one donor coun-
tries took part in the negotiations. The negotiations covered many issues: the key issues, however, were the size of the replenishment, burden-sharing, allocations, and terms.
Throughout the negotiations, the deputies expressed satisfaction with the role being played by the Association in supporting efforts to secure an improvement in the economic prospects of IDA recipient countries. In this connection, the deputies recognized that substantial flows of concessional resources to borrower countries would be necessary over the longer term. It was against this background that the deputies made a commitment to replenish IDA's resources to the maximum extent possible.
The donors agreed on a basic IDA-8 replenishment of $11.5 billion, with normal burden-sharing arrangements. In addition, a number of countries agreed to supplement their basic contributions: Japan provided an additional $450 million; the Netherlands, $125.5 million; Italy, $90.5 million; the Federal Republic of Germany, $50 million; and the United Kingdom, S15 million. The supplementary contributions from the Netherlands and Italy were in addition to increases in their shares in the basic IDA-8 replenishment. Canada also agreed to make a special contribution of $28.75 million, to be included as a part of the basic $11.5 billion replenishment. Switzerland also concluded a bilateral agreement with IDA for $165 million on an untied grant basis in conjunction with the IDA-8 replenishment. These supplementary resources brought the total funds available to IDA during the eighth replenishment period to $12.4 billion.
In the basic replenishment, the United States and Japan maintained their IDA-7 shares of 25 percent and 18.7 percent, respectively. A number of countries increased their shares in IDA-8 over what they held in IDA-7.
They were Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Republic of Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, and Sweden.
Japan made its 18.7 percent share and special contribution of $450 million contingent on an increase in its shareholding in the IBRD. Similarly, Italy, Canada, the Netherlands, and Korea conditioned increases in their IDA con-
tributions on increases in their IBRD shareholdings. The United States, which was authorized to subscribe to a certain amount of unsubscribed shares, has indicated that it would be prepared to release some of these shares to the Bank contingent on progress made in amending the IBRD Articles of Agreement to increase to 85 percent the majority of the total voting power required for further amending the
Articles.5 The board of governors decided that when the shares were released, 2 percent of the United States' total IBRD share capital would be allocated to Canada, Japan, and Italy. At the same time, the board decided to allocate additional shares to the Netherlands and Korea, as well as to India, but from other sources as they become available. Turkey agreed to contribute to IDA for the first time, with a share in the replenishment of 0.09 percent. (IDA-8 shares and special contributions are shown in Table 2-4.)
Donors gave high priority to increasing resource flows from IDA to sub-Saharan Africa, especially in support of programs of policy reform. They agreed that a minimum of 45 percent and up to 50 percent of IDA-8 resources should be made available to that region, if warranted by progress with their economic-adjustment programs. The donors also agreed to continue to support India and China, which receive a blend of IDA and IBRD funds, as well as other low-income countries outside Africa. Donors agreed, furthermore, that the nominal allocations of IDA-8 resources to India and China should not be less than under IDA-7, and that their joint share of these resources should be around 30 percent.
The donors, while agreeing to maintain IDA as a lender primarily for investment purposes, placed greater emphasis on adjustment support lending in IDA-8. They agreed that some $3 billion to $3.5 billion of total IDA-8 resources should be used for adjustment support, and an element of this will be used in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund's new structural-adjustment facility.
IDA financial-policy review. In March 1987, the Association's executive board undertook a review of IDA's financial policies. As a result of this review, the executive directors agreed to keep IDA's commitment fee at its present level of 0.5 percent, which, together with IDA's service charge of 0.75 percent, is used to cover IDA's administrative expenses. The level of the commitment fee, however, would continue to be subject to periodic review in the light of changes in IDA's financial position.
Most executive directors also adopted the proposal, first discussed by the IDA deputies, to reduce IDA credit maturities from the current level of fifty years to forty years for the least-developed (referring to the United Nations list of "LLDCs") or "IDA-only" countries and to 35 years for all other borrowers. They also agreed that a provision should be included in IDA credit agreements stipulating that, subject to executive directors' review and approval, the terms on all outstanding credits extended to a particular borrower after June
30, 1987, would be modified if the following conditions were met: the per capita gross national product of a borrowing country has remained above $790 (in 1985 terms) for five consecutive years and a borrower has achieved creditworthiness for IBRD borrowing. In making such a review, the executive directors will consider whether the development of the borrower's economy has advanced sufficiently to justify modifying such terms.
Fiscal 1987 commitment authority. In fiscal 1987, IDA received additional notification of participation in the seventh replenishment from Colombia. Cumulative notifications of participation in IDA-7 now represent 99.6 percent of the total replenishment volume.
The IDA-7 third tranche was scheduled to be released on November 1, 1986. However, to mitigate a hiatus in commitment authority, IDA requested advance releases of the IDA-7 third tranche in fiscal 1986. Fifteen donors made such advance releases of the full amount or a part thereof (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia). Subsequent scheduled releases of the third tranche were made in full in fiscal 1987 by Australia, Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Greece, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, South Africa, and the United Kingdom. The United States payment in fiscal 1987 was $622.6 million, bringing its cumulative total to $2,042.5 million, or 90.8 percent of its total IDA-7 subscription and contribution of $2,250 million. Germany, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia exercised their right to remain pro-rata with the United States in release of commitment authority.
Additional commitment authority for fiscal 1987 was also provided by the transfer from the IBRD of $281 million out of its fiscal 1986 net income.
IDA finances. The Association held a total of $44,434 million in credits on June 30, 1987, including $2,932 million approved but not yet effective. Of the $41,502 million of effective credits, $12,076 million was undisbursed at the end of the year.
Late in the fiscal year, the board of governors adopted a resolution containing an amendment to the Articles of Agreement emanating from the executive directors to the effect of increasing to 85 percent the special majority of the total voting power required to further amend the Articles of Agreement. In accordance w'ith Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement, the amendment will enter into force for all members three months after it has been accepted by three fifths of the members having four fifths of the total voting power.
Disbursements totaled $3,088 million (including disbursements from the IDA Special Fund) in fiscal 1987, compared with $3,155 million in fiscal 1986. As of June 30, 1987, IDA had disbursed a total of $28,838 million since the start of its operations.
Commitments by the Association in fiscal 1987 totaled SDR2.8 billion ($3,486 million), compared with SDR2.9 billion ($3,140 million) in fiscal 1986.
The resources provided to IDA were $3,498 million during the year, including amounts provided by members of $2,774 million, which consisted primarily of contributions to the seventh replenishment, which aggregated $2,439 million, adjusted for the effects of currency appreciations of $335 million of resources provided by members in past fiscal years. The IBRD granted SDR231 million ($281' million) to IDA from its fiscal 1986 net income. Other resources that became available to IDA during the fiscal year totaled $443 million and were derived primarily from grant participations in, cancellations of, and repayments of credits.
On June 30, 1987, the executive directors of the Association adopted a formal interpretation of the IDA Articles of Agreement to apply the same standard of value to the reference to the 1960 dollar contained in the IDA Articles as applied to the 1944 dollar in the IBRD Articles of Agreement. (The 1944 dollar and the 1960 dollar had the same value.)
Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa
The Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa began operations on July 1. 1985. Funds for the facility are used to provide credits to IDA-eligible countries that have undertaken, or are committed to undertake, appropriate medium-term programs of policy reform, including structural and institutional improvements, as well as stabilization measures acceptable to IDA.
The facility's total resources, of $1,946 million (at June 30, 1987, exchange rates) are available for commitments through fiscal 1988. (See Table 2-5.)
During the past year, twelve operations were financed with facility credits totaling $421 million. Special joint financing amounted to $192 million. (See Table 2-6.) The number of countries receiving assistance from the facility during its first two years increased to twenty.
As of June 30, 1987, total disbursements amounted to S604 million, with $480 million disbursed from facility credits and $124 million under special joint financing. Ninety percent of the amount committed directly from the facility in fiscal 1986 was disbursed by the end of fiscal 1987, or within eighteen months from the
effectiveness date of the initial credits. This clearly demonstrates that one of the principal objectives of the facility, fast-disbursing operations, is being met.
Women in Development
During the United Nations Decade for Women, much baseline work was done to assess women's situations and to begin to develop programs, at least on a pilot basis. The developing countries put into place policies to broaden opportunities for women, and countries adopted "forward-looking strategies" at the UN conference in Nairobi, which ended the Decade for Women. Bilateral donors, notably the United States, the Nordic countries, the Netherlands, and Canada, established policies to encourage women in development and supported programs, typically on a relatively limited scale. So, too, did a number of United Nations agencies. The World Bank provided training for staff on women-in-development issues and undertook a number of projects aimed at helping women.
The Bank is now taking the initiative in more ambitious operational efforts to help women, especially in agriculture, employment, education, and health and family planning. Four steps are being emphasized: women in development (WID) country-action plans, program initiatives in agricultural extension and "safe motherhood," and the selection of projects in several sectors for a "best effort" on women in development.
• Country-action plans. Country-action plans examine the situation of women in particular countries and how this situation relates to the country's development strategy; they also suggest how best to assist women to increase productivity and offer recommendations to governments for action in key sectors. These plans are based on Bank country analysis, countries' own development plans, and general project experience.
In fiscal 1986, background work for a country-action plan for Kenya was developed (see box on page 80). Since then, work has begun on plans for Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Bolivia, and The Gambia. Consultations with Bank staff have generated suggestions on several other countries; the Bank is exploring these suggestions with governments.
• Agricultural extension. Details of the Bank's work in this area can be found in the box on page 80. In addition to Kenya, the subject of the box, the Bank is now working in Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Zambia, the Yemen Arab Republic. Mexico, and elsewhere on ways to reach women farmers more effectively.
• Safe motherhood initiative. In the developing world, the risk of losing a mother concerns nearly every family; of every 100,000 women giving birth in Africa, for instance, roughly 600 die, compared with fewer than 10 in the developed world. In fiscal 1987, the Bank cosponsored, together with the World Health Organization and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, a Safe Motherhood Conference, held in Nairobi. Specific ways to improve maternal health were endorsed, and the president of the Bank announced that, over the next several years, lending for population, health, and nutrition would be doubled. The Bank is already building a safe-motherhood approach into Bank projects, particularly in Africa.
• "Best-effort" projects. Drawing on its past experience, the Bank is now selecting ten to fifteen regular (as opposed to women's) projects to show what a "best effort" to involve women can accomplish. Some are under way; others are in the planning stage. The
Bank's women-in-development division is helping with project design, in some cases, and with assessment of impact and costs as the projects move forward in the pipeline.
The Environment
Since 1970, the World Bank has steadily increased its attention to the environmental opportunities and risks introduced by the development process (the Bank was the first international institution to set explicit policies on limiting harmful environmental consequences of those development projects it supported). And, over the past dozen years, the Bank has endeavored to identify and prepare for financing projects that aim to restore, rehabilitate, and improve the management of the natural environment and human settlements.
The primary environmental concern of a generation ago, industrial pollution in the developed world, has since broadened to include such issues as biodiversity, global atmospheric
pollution, soil and forest deterioration, and the welfare of tribal peoples.
Promoting growth, alleviating poverty, and protecting the environment are mutually supporting objectives in the long run. In the short run, however, the three objectives are not always compatible, and decisionmakers often confront difficult choices in pursuing them simultaneously. That makes it important to consider the implications of competing claims and to determine what approaches can best help achieve the most appropriate balance.
The problems of environmental degradation are well known, but the ways of ameliorating them are often constrained by a combination of technical ignorance, a shortage of political will, and, especially in low-income developing countries, by a lack of financial, institutional, and human resources. Resolution of today's
urgent concerns calls for consensus and coordinated action by developed and developing countries, nongovernmental organizations, and international financial institutions such as the World Bank.
Fiscal year 1987 has seen a forming of that needed consensus. Concern over the environment is no longer regarded as a theoretical or esoteric issue. Rather, it has become one that is increasingly linked to people and the issues of poverty, for it is the poorest members of society that typically suffer most from environmental degradation.
Thus, without safe drinking water, the urban poor live in unsanitary conditions and are hurt most by noise, flood, and water pollution. They cannot afford to pay for better services or to defend themselves against damage. Similarly, the rural poor farm flood-prone valleys
and swiftly eroding hillsides. They cannot afford to invest in conservation measures or grow crops with long gestation periods. Nor can they move to more productive land. Poverty—of both people and countries—is thus a major cause of environmental degradation. If environmental degradation is not to become completely unmanageable, therefore, it is essential to devise policies oriented to economic growth with special emphasis on improving the incomes of the poor.
The World Bank has pledged to strengthen its commitment to match its fight against poverty with care to protect the environment.
In general, the Bank has announced that lessons learned from experience will henceforth be incorporated more systematically into the design of new projects; that it will help bring the issue of natural-resource management to the forefront of its dialogue with governments of borrowing member countries; and that closer links will be established with other agencies, both private and public, from whom the Bank can learn much.
In May 1987, President Conable, in an address to the World Resources Institute, detailed plans that gave texture to the general pledges made earlier to the Development Committee at its April 1987 meeting in Washington, D.C.
• An environmental department, he said, would be created in the newly organized Bank to help set the direction of Bank environmental policy, planning, and research work and to take the lead in developing strategies to integrate environmental considerations into the Bank's overall lending and policy activities. That department is in place today.
In addition, new offices have been created in each of the regions' new technical departments to function as watchdogs over Bank-supported projects and as scouts and advocates for potential resource-management operations.
• In partnership with its member countries and the development community, Bank resources will be gathered to conduct environmental assessments in about thirty developing countries over the next five years. This activity will include a review of resource endowments and degradation and an analysis of the proximate and underlying causes of such degradation. The review and analysis will form the basis of policy instruments to overcome the various constraints to efficient natural-resource management.
• In Africa, where deserts are spreading, forests are vanishing, and soil is eroding, Bank staff are being asked to draw up a special program of technical studies to identify and assess promising regional environmental-pro-
tection projects for implementation by donor governments, recipient countries, and grassroots nongovernmental organizations.
• Already the world's largest single source of funding for tropical-forest conservation and development, the Bank will more than double its volume of lending for environmentally sound forestry projects—from $152 million in fiscal 1987 to $350 million in fiscal 1989. And, because the provision of more funding for forestry cannot, by itself, halt the process of tropical deforestation, the Bank will endeavor to ensure that its forestry investments are accompanied by policy measures in borrowing countries designed to sustain them.
• The possibility of designing a broad, long-term, international project to improve and strengthen the environment of the Mediterranean region, home to 400 million people of eighteen nations, will be explored. This proposed project, one that is ambitious both politically and technically, would involve many separate governments and technical-support agencies.
Cofinancing
For the second consecutive year, almost half of all World Bank-assisted projects approved in fiscal year 1987 attracted cofinancing. Total cofinancing expected to be associated with these operations amounted to $5.6 billion (see Table 2-7). The total volume of cofinancing rose markedly from the fiscal 1986 level despite difficult market conditions that affect private and export-credit flows. The significant rise in planned export-credit cofinancing for operations approved in fiscal 1987—as compared with the volume recorded in fiscal 1986—is partly explained by the rebound from the exceptionally low level of the previous year and reflects the normal fluctuations in cofinancing from this source over recent years. The recovery in volume is also, in part, a reflection of the introduction of a new cofinancing source: the Export-Import Bank (Eximbank) of Japan's untied loan facility.
The largest source of cofinancing continued to be official bilateral aid agencies and multilateral development institutions, which, together, contributed $2.7 billion in fiscal 1987. The second year of implementation of the Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa yielded $421 million in Special Facility credits and $191.8 million in special joint financing from Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom. A further S35 million was committed by these sources in fiscal 1987 for four projects approved in fiscal years 1985 and 1986.
During fiscal 1987, a systematic process of consultation and coordination with colenders continued under the many existing cofinancing framework agreements. During this period, also, eight new consultant trust funds were concluded with donor agencies, bringing the total of such arrangements to twelve. To date, the consultant trust funds have committed grant funds of approximately $9,980,000 for the use of consultants in support of the Bank's operational work.
In fiscal 1987, the government of Japan and the Bank concluded an agreement for the recycling of Japanese private and public funds through the Bank to developing countries. Through the agreement:
• Japan will enlarge the Bank's access to the Tokyo market by about ¥300 billion for the years 1988-90 to facilitate the recycling of private Japanese funds. The Bank will use the additional funds to help finance its growing disbursements to developing countries.
• The government of Japan will provide ¥30 billion in grants with untied conditions during its 1987-89 fiscal years, subject to budget approval by the Diet. Of this amount, ¥6 billion was deposited to the Bank in fiscal 1987. Japan and the Bank will jointly select the operations that will benefit from the grant program. The procurement of goods and services will be arranged following the Bank's procurement procedures of international competitive bidding.
Through these measures, a total of about ¥330 billion (around $2.3 billion) in private and public funds will be recycled over the next three years.
The most significant development in activities with export-credit agencies was the successful launching of operations with the untied loan facility of the Eximbank of Japan. This facility provides nonconcessional funds and is directed particularly towards IBRD borrowers that are undertaking programs of adjustment. Five operations were substantially concluded
in fiscal 1987 for a total of $1.8 billion. These operations were in Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, and Turkey. About half of this amount was for twenty-one ongoing IBRD-supported projects in Indonesia. A similar volume of cofinancing with the Exim-bank's untied loan facility achieved during the past year is anticipated in fiscal year 1988. The Bank has signed a framework agreement with the Eximbank to facilitate the process. Discussions are also under way with other countries to explore the scope for similar untied facilities.
In fiscal 1987, cofinancing with commercial banks using the Bank's new instruments involved six commercial loans totaling $1,995 million. Of the total, $1,500 million was for the Mexican "new money" package in which the World Bank guarantee for part of the package was essential to complete the new-money arrangement. Other loans went to Cameroon, Turkey, and Uruguay. World Bank participation included direct funding of $72.9 million and partial guarantees totaling $772.5 million. The pipeline of possibilities for the use of these cofinancing instruments, however, has remained weak in the light of continuing difficult market conditions.
In the second half of fiscal 1987, preparations were begun for the first selldown of a part of the IBRD's share in a cofmanced syndicated loan using the new instruments. Other activities with the commercial and investment-banking community included discussions of the use of the cofinancing instruments in connection with capital-market note instruments and reports on debt-equity conversion schemes and the secondary market in developing-country debt.
Disbursements by Source of Supply
Projects financed by the World Bank involve foreign and local expenditures necessary to achieve project goals. Disbursements are made to cover specific foreign costs and are often made to finance some local expenditures.
Through the end of fiscal year 1987, more than 64 percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements covered goods and services provided directly by suppliers located outside the borrowing country. While most foreign procurement comes from suppliers in developed member countries and Switzerland, developing-country suppliers have become increasingly effective in winning contract awards. Through the end of fiscal 1983, disbursements for these
countries amounted to about 7 percent. During fiscal year 1987, the amount was about 17 percent.
Table 2-8 shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements to the end of fiscal 1983, for each of the next four fiscal years, and to the end of fiscal 1987.
Locally produced goods and services usually include a significant foreign-exchange component. Cumulative local disbursements increased from 30 percent at the end of fiscal 1983 to more than 35 percent at the end of fiscal 1987. Table 2-9 shows disbursements made in fiscal 1987 by the IBRD and IDA for local procurement from the top forty-four borrowing countries and disbursements made in respect of goods, works, and services procured from them by other borrowers. Table 2-10 shows IBRD and IDA foreign disbursements by supplying country. Details for selected developing countries with at least a 0.1 percent share of total foreign procurement are shown.
Table 2-11 is new to this year's Annual Report. It is a record of IBRD and IDA foreign disbursements for goods, works, and services from Part I and Part II countries in fiscal 1987.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
The Bank's efforts toward the creation of MIGA proceeded in fiscal year 1987. In mid September, 1986, a preparatory committee of the then forty-four signatory states of the MIGA Convention met in Washington, D.C. under the auspices of the Bank. The committee, under the chairmanship of the Bank's vice president and general counsel, reviewed drafts of by-laws, rules of procedure, and financial and operational regulations that had been prepared by the Bank's legal department. Following some changes, the committee unanimously recommended the texts for adoption by the governing bodies of MIGA so that MIGA might begin operations promptly upon its creation.
As of June 30, 1987, fifty-eight countries had signed the MIGA Convention.6 The signatory countries included twelve developed countries and forty-six developing countries. Also, as of that date, thirteen developing countries and one developed country, Japan, had ratified the MIGA Convention. In many of the signatory countries, procedures to permit ratification of the MIGA Convention are under way. The Convention will enter into force upon its ratification or acceptance by at least five developed and fifteen developing countries whose capital subscriptions total at least one third of MIGA's authorized capital, that is, about $361 million.
MIGA's goal is to promote the flow of international investments to developing countries; it will be able to do so by issuing guarantees, including coinsurance with, and reinsurance of, existing political-risk insurers, against noncommercial risks and by extending a broad array of advisory and technical services.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is an autonomous international institution created by the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (the Convention), which entered into force on October 14, 1966. ICSID provides facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes between contracting states and nationals of other contracting states with a view to promoting a climate of mutual confidence between investors and states favorable to increasing the flow of resources to developing countries.
Contracting states are state members of the Bank, and any other state that is a party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice, that have ratified and signed the Convention.
The number of states that have signed or ratified the Convention has continued to grow. During fiscal 1987, the Convention was signed by Hungary, on October 1, 1986, by Belize, on December 19, 1986, and by Turkey on June 24, 1987, bringing the total of signatory states to ninety-seven. With the deposit by Hungary of its instrument of ratification on February 4, 1987, the number of contracting states reached eighty-nine; they are from all the regions of the world.
The number of cases submitted to ICSID for resolution has also increased significantly. During the past year, the secretary-general of ICSID registered requests for arbitration in three new cases. The number of disputes pending before the Centre now stands at nine, and the total number of cases handled by ICSID
6 Signatory countries (asterisks denote countries that have also ratified) are: *Bahrain, "Bangladesh, "Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Cote d'lvoire, *Cyprus, Denmark, ^Ecuador, Egypt. Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Hungary, "Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, "Japan, "Jordan, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, "Lesotho, Madagascar, "Malawi, Malta. Morocco, the Netherlands, Nigeria, "Pakistan, Philippines, "Saudi Arabia, "Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland. Togo, Tunisia. Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, "Western Samoa, Yemen Arab Republic. Zaire. Zambia.
since its inception has reached twenty-three, most of which were submitted in the past five years.
During fiscal 1987, ICSID continued to carry out its program of publications and promotional activities. Two additional issues of the semiannual publication, "ICSID Review— Foreign Investment Law Journal," which was launched in April 1986, as well as an additional release of its Investment Treaties series and of its collection of Investment Laws of the World, were published.
Details of the activities and initiatives of the past fiscal year appear in ICSID's Annual Report.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
During fiscal year 1987, the International Finance Corporation expanded its assistance to the private sector in member countries through support for a record number of projects and, in addition, took significant steps to enhance its ability to continue this assistance by placing more emphasis on real growth in its disbursed loan and equity portfolio.
Total approved investments were $920 million, including $790 million for the IFC's own account, in ninety-two business ventures. The $54 million in net income for the year was the highest ever reported, more than double that of last year.
At this mid point of the IFC's current five-year program, overall operational objectives have been met in terms of approved projects
and net value of investments; at the same time, however, growth of the disbursed portfolio is lagging behind the program. The main goal for the remainder of the five-year program, therefore, will be to continue to expand investments and to do so in a manner that will strengthen the Corporation's finances. The IFC will put more emphasis on growth in the disbursed loan and equity portfolio rather than on the number of projects submitted to the executive directors for approval. More attention will be paid to general corporate expansion and restructuring, while, at the same time, fee-based activities will play a larger part in terms of contribution to sources of income.
New developments during the year included an expansion of market-based financial services, which will make available some of the most advanced financial instruments and techniques to the private sector in developing countries, and the involvement of the IFC in debt-equity conversion mechanisms. This activity is part of the Corporation's continuing promotion of foreign portfolio investment in developing countries. In addition, to focus the Corporation's portfolio supervision and management better, a new vice presidency of portfolio operations was created. The increased emphasis on supervision is designed to contain portfolio problems, and, in the case of the equity portfolio, to help realize attractive capital-gains opportunities.
Full details of the IFC's fiscal year can be found in the Corporation's Annual Report.
Section Three
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
The international economic environment in 1986 continued to be characterized by slow growth and depressed commodity prices. Growth of world output slowed from 3.1 percent in 1985 to 2.9 percent. Weakness in primary commodity prices caused terms-of-trade losses comparable to that experienced in the 1930s and reduced the effectiveness of adjustment programs in many developing countries; current-account surpluses and deficits among industrial countries rose from already high levels;1 and limited progress was made in obtaining the funds necessary to support successful adjustment programs in the highly indebted countries.
Sharp and largely unforeseen changes in relative prices and in exchange rates contributed to a general fall in the growth rate of output. Countries subject to unfavorable shocks reduced demand severely, while countries benefiting from relative price changes expanded only slowly. The decline in primary-commodity prices, particularly for oil, led many primary-commodity producers to impose contractionary policies, while financial and other constraints slowed the growth of demand in many countries that are net importers of primary commodities. In countries with current-account surpluses, appreciating currencies reduced the supply of tradeables and slowed investment growth; the corresponding increase in supply for countries with depreciating currencies was slow in coming.
This asymmetric response to changes in relative prices can be partially attributed to growing uncertainty over future changes in these prices and over the evolution of government policies to combat unsustainable financial imbalances.
Events in 1986 demonstrated the high degree of interdependence in the international economy. Many developing countries successfully implemented painful reforms in policy to adjust to deteriorating terms of trade and low levels of external finance. These adjustment efforts were made more difficult by slow growth in demand from industrial countries. In turn, the severity of adjustment in the developing countries reduced the growth rate of industrial
countries' exports and output, and made it more difficult to reduce financial imbalances while achieving acceptable rates of growth. Increased tensions over agricultural trade and rising pressure for the imposition of stronger protectionist measures also hampered efforts at adjustment.
Low rates of demand growth contributed to another year of slow growth in world trade. The volume of world merchandise trade rose by about 3.5 percent in 1986, the same as in 1985, but well below the average prior to 1980. World trade in manufactures increased by only 3 percent in 1986, compared with 5.5 percent in 1985, owing to weak demand and a slowdown in export growth from countries with appreciating currencies. Oil exports rose by 9 percent in 1986, as consumption and stockbuilding increased in response to the price decline that followed decisions by some countries that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to increase production late in 1985.
Still, some important progress was made towards resolving the problems confronting the international economy. The depreciation of the dollar that took place should contribute, in the medium term, to a more sustainable pattern of trade and current-account balances among the industrial countries, and the fall in the price of oil should reduce efforts devoted to the extraction of high-cost energy. Inflation and interest rates in industrial countries declined; agreement was reached in Uruguay to begin the next round of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT); an easier monetary stance and terms-of-trade gains led to an acceleration in the growth of domestic demand in Europe and Japan; developing countries continued their efforts to control inflation and reduce macroeconomic dis-equilibria; and many countries began to implement reforms to increase the efficiency of their
' Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
public sectors, liberalize trade, correct overvalued exchange rates, and reduce the scope and severity of administrative controls.
The growth rate of gross domestic product (GDP) in developing countries averaged 4.2 percent, 0.6 percentage points below that of
1985. Declines in primary-commodity prices, stemming from weak demand in industrial countries and excess supply, severely impaired developing countries' terms of trade. The fall in the price of oil reduced the export earnings of oil-exporting countries by 34 percent in dollar value, and the depreciation of the dollar further reduced the purchasing power of their exports. Many of the poorer countries in sub-Saharan Africa suffered severely from the continued decline in nonoil commodity prices relative to the prices of their manufactured imports. Restrictive demand policies necessary to control inflation, reduce government deficits, and adjust to low levels of external finance continued to depress output in highly indebted countries.2
By contrast, the decline in primary-commodity prices and their improved competitiveness relative to Europe and Japan helped de-veloping-country exporters of manufactures to achieve high rates of GDP growth, while reducing their dependence on foreign borrowing.
In the industrial countries, the rise in consumption, caused by lower primary-commodity prices, was offset by reduced demand from oil-exporting countries, slow investment growth in general, declines in investment in the energy sector, and a fall in fiscal stimulus. The fall in primary-commodity prices helped to reduce inflation rates further. Industrial countries' GDP deflator rose by only 3.4 percent in
1986, the lowest average inflation rate since 1965. Nevertheless, this rate was still high relative to the widespread deceleration in consumer prices and declines in import prices that occurred during the year.
Little progress was made in negotiations between highly indebted countries and commercial banks on securing the increased funds envisioned under the initiative begun in 1985 by United States Secretary of the Treasury, James A. Baker III, which called for a combination of increased official support, adoption of adjustment programs in developing countries to improve the efficiency of their economies, and increased lending from the commercial banks. The successful agreement with Mexico was a major exception, but had not been completed by the end of the year. Eight other developing countries concluded rescheduling agreements with the commercial banks, although the amount of new money was small. Early in 1987, the completion of the Mexican
agreement, together with important new agreements covering Argentina, the Philippines, and Venezuela, gave grounds for more encouragement. However, concern over the adequacy of new financing available to the developing countries remains strong, and the lack of substantial progress in 1986 by debtor countries in regaining normal access to the financial markets is disappointing.
The Industrial Countries
Growth of GDP in industrial countries slowed from 2.8 percent in 1985 to 2.5 percent in 1986. (See Table 3-1.)
In the United States, gross domestic product (GDP) increased by 2.6 percent. Capital gains from the stock market boom and the fall in inflation and interest rates, brought on by the drop in primary-commodity prices and some easing of monetary policy, stimulated consumption. However, this increase was restrained by the fact that personal savings could hardly have been reduced further from levels already low by historical standards. Moreover, faster growth in consumption was offset by slower growth in other demand components. Cutbacks in the exploration and development of energy sources, low rates of capacity utilization in industry, and changes to the tax code reduced investment outside of the housing sector. The contribution to growth from fiscal stimulus is estimated to have declined from 0.8 percent of GNP in 1985 to 0.3 percent in 1986, as initial steps were taken to bring the fiscal deficit under control. The fall in net exports reduced GDP growth by one percentage point.
The response of trade volumes to the depreciation of the United States dollar has been slow in coming. The volume of exports from the United States increased by less than 2.5 percent, while imports rose by over 10 percent. Although this relationship may be reversed in 1987, the principal effect to date of the dollar's fall has been to increase the nominal value of the trade deficit. Slow export growth in the United States reflects, in part, how difficult it is to reestablish foreign markets after a currency has been overvalued for an extended period. The depreciation of the United States dollar has depressed output in surplus countries, while in both surplus and deficit countries, the trade imbalance has widened in local-currency terms. The United States' balance should start to improve as trade volumes respond to the new set of relative prices. Adjust-
Argentina. Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire. Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico. Morocco, Nigeria. Peru, the Philippines. Uruguay. Venezuela, and Yugoslavia.
ment would be greatly facilitated by actions to stimulate domestic demand in the surplus countries of Europe and in Japan and to reduce the budget deficit in the United States.
In Japan, the growth rate of GDP fell from 4.5 percent in 1985 to 2.2 percent in 1986, the worst performance since the recession of 1974. The growth rate of consumption actually increased slightly compared with 1985, as inflation lessened, interest rates dropped, and fiscal policy became less restrictive. In addition, investment outside the manufacturing sector rose strongly. However, the appreciation of the yen resulted in stagnation in manufacturing investment, a fall in export volumes, and a pick-up in growth in the volume of imports. The external sector reduced the growth rate of GNP in 1986 by about 1.5 percentage points, compared with the 1 percent positive contribution it made to output in 1985.
In Europe, GDP growth rates averaged about the same as in 1985. Some increase in the growth rate of output in France was balanced by a fall in the United Kingdom (the result of the drop in oil prices), while GDP in the Federal Republic of Germany increased at about the same rate as in 1985. Currency appreciations, easier monetary policies, and improved terms of trade increased the growth rate of consumption. However, rising con-
sumption was offset by slower investment and export growth caused by currency appreciations and low external demand from major trading partners. The external sector reduced growth rates by 1.1 percent of GNP in Germany, 1.8 percent of GNP in France, 0.8 percent in the United Kingdom, and 0.5 percent in Italy.
Net exports thus declined in real terms in all of the major industrial countries. For industrial countries as a group, net exports are estimated to have fallen by about 1 percent of GDP. The demand for industrial countries' exports by oil-exporting countries fell as oil prices declined, adjustment programs in heavily indebted developing countries reduced their ability to import, and currency depreciation enabled developing-country exporters of manufactures to increase their market share in industrial countries.
Unemployment rates remained high in industrial countries. In Europe, almost 11 percent of the workforce was unemployed, about the same as in 1985, and by early 1987, no general improvement was in sight. Although governments have made some inroads into unemployment among youths through targeted job-training and job-creation programs, no consensus has been reached on how to reduce overall unemployment rates. The rate of unem-
ployment declined only slightly in the United States. In Japan, the rate of unemployment had risen to about 3 percent by the end of 1986, still well below that of other industrial countries but high compared with recent Japanese experience. Rates of unemployment which, in earlier years, would have been regarded as unacceptable, have increasingly become the norm.
Although overall economic performance in 1986 was no better than in 1985, some momentum toward constructive change was apparent during the year and has continued into 1987. At the beginning of 1986, the economic situation of industrial countries was characterized by slow growth, high rates of unemployment, and large financial imbalances that threatened the sustainability of recovery and exacerbated trade tensions among countries. A particularly-troublesome issue at that time was whether the continuing rise in the current-account deficit of the United States could be financed without a rise in interest rates. It was feared by some that expectations of an imminent, sharp fall in the value of the United States dollar would lower external lending to the United States, thus requiring a rise in interest rates to continue to attract the necessary foreign finance. However, major changes in economic policies in industrial countries had been implemented that pointed, at least, to the beginning of a resolution of these difficulties. In the United States, the Balanced Budget Act of 1985, the first step towards reducing the external deficit, symbolized a shift in policy in the direction of fiscal restraint. The "Plaza Agreement" of September 1985, which provided governmental approval for the decline of the dollar, increased the likelihood that the large United States' deficit and Japanese and European surpluses could be reduced in an orderly fashion.
Further progress was made in 1986. The dollar depreciated steadily, and the rise in the deficit of the United States was financed in the context of a general decline in interest rates and a narrowing of interest-rate differentials. Cooperation among the major industrial economies thus succeeded in reducing the value of the United States dollar from its unsustainable level in an orderly fashion and without adverse repercussions on interest rates and other financial conditions. Agreement by contracting parties of the GATT to launch a new round (the Uruguay Round) of multilateral trade negotiations provides hope for a further liberalization of trade barriers.
Still, significant dangers remain. In the absence of extra stimulus from Japan and Europe, reduction of the United States budget deficit at or near the pace envisioned in the Balanced Budget Act of 1985 could lead to an
excessive fall in global demand, and, perhaps, a recession. Nor has the specter of protectionist measures, which are abetted, in turn, by inadequate growth, diminished. Indeed, the current period presents a clear danger to a smooth resolution of trade disputes. In the United States, both the increasing (nominal) current-account deficit and slow growth of demand tend to generate continued pressures for trade restrictions, despite the depreciation of the United States dollar. In the surplus countries, currency appreciations have begun to affect the tradeables sectors, and weakening export demand has become a significant drag on growth of output and income. These countries thus find it more difficult to agree to increased liberalization of their markets.
These tensions may subside in the future as financial imbalances are reduced as a result of past dollar depreciation. Such hopes could be supported if a period of comparative constancy of major exchange rates could be achieved. The early months of 1987 witnessed the formation of a remarkable consensus among leading officials on the need to stabilize exchange rates (not necessarily to fix them, but to permit only slow movements, preferably in line with the underlying fundamentals). Investment, business confidence, growth, and foreign-exchange stability are now seen as closely linked. There is also a consensus that stable exchange rates cannot be achieved simply by central-bank intervention; stable and proper underlying policy relationships are required. Further, there is wide agreement that an aspect of this is the need for structural adjustments: labor flexibility, resistance to protectionism, liberalization of trade and financial policies, including greater reliance on market forces in agricultural policies.
The danger is that, while the world waits for these better policies, a series of aggressive and retaliatory actions in the trade field could result in a build-up of protectionist barriers. Such actions would have financially destabilizing and deflationary consequences. Moreover, barriers, once imposed, would be difficult to dismantle later.
In short, governments cannot afford to rest on the accomplishments of the past year. Progress in the upcoming trade negotiations is essential if confidence in an open trading environment is to be preserved. The new sense of progress in agricultural reforms needs to continue and bear fruit. To the extent that underlying disequilibria remain, cooperative efforts must be undertaken to secure adjustment of fiscal and monetary misalignments and to guard against a resurgence of global inflation in the medium term. Current financial imbalances
can be reduced through market forces. For example, a fall in private capital flows to deficit countries would raise real interest rates and hence reduce investment, thus improving the current account. However, reliance on market forces alone to correct imbalances that have emerged from unsustainable and inconsistent macroeconomic policies is likely to produce severe and sudden losses in real income, as well as losses of financial and monetary control. Therefore, adjustment in the United States to a reduced level of dependence on external savings must be gradual and eased by higher growth of demand in other countries. Some fiscal expansion in countries with large surpluses appears to be a necessary component of this higher demand in the effort to maintain acceptable rates of growth of world output while reducing the budget and trade deficits of the United States.
Even given the most optimistic assumptions, however, a significant increase in GDP growth rates in industrial countries in 1987 is unlikely. The stimulus from fiscal policy will probably decline, particularly as real government spending in the United States now appears to be leveling off. Stabilizing reactions in Japan and Europe are occurring too late to prevent another year of slow growth there, although recent actions to increase spending in Japan do demonstrate a commitment to a more expansionary policy. It is unlikely that monetary policy in the major industrial economies will be as stimulative as it was in 1986. Almost certainly, the terms-of-trade gains of 1986 will not be repeated, as prices of oil and other primary inputs for industry can be expected to be considerably higher than in the past year. Thus, while the steps being taken toward an improved economic environment should facilitate higher rates of growth in the medium term, the severity as well as scale, of the present adjustment problems suggest another twelve months, at least, of slow growth in the world economy.
The Developing Countries
In 1986, the economic scene in the developing countries was dominated by declines in primary-commodity prices, slow growth in demand from industrial countries, and continued adjustment efforts. The GDP of developing countries rose by 4.2 percent, 0.6 percentage points below the 1985 rate of growth and more than 2 percentage points below the annual average from 1960 to 1980. (See Table 3-2.) Moreover, the 4.2 percent rate of growth can be attributed to rapid growth in a few large countries. For developing countries as a group, output in per capita terms rose by 2.2 percent;
excluding Brazil and China, per capita output increased by only 0.4 percent.
Developing countries' gross national income, or GNY (that is, GNP adjusted for terms-of-trade changes) rose by only 3 percent, or 1 percent per capita. Oil-exporting countries, in particular, suffered a severe deterioration in their terms of trade, and their per capita GNY fell by 12 percent. By contrast, the GNY of countries that are major exporters of manufactures increased by 7 percent per capita, as the prices of their manufactured exports increased strongly relative to those of their primary-commodity imports. The slow growth in output and declining real income of primary exporters followed the cumulative impairment in their terms of trade that had built up during the first half of the 1980s.
Fundamental difficulties for producers of primary commodities. Since 1980, the dollar prices of primary commodities have fallen dramatically—by 1986, the average dollar price of developing countries' exports other than fuel had fallen by 26 percent (by 35 percent relative to the price of developing-country manufactured imports); that of oil had dropped by 61 percent.
Weakness in primary prices over this period stemmed from both low external demand and increased supplies. Low rates of growth in industrial countries (the major market for developing countries' primary-commodity exports) and a reduction in the intensity of use of commodities (because of substitution for primary commodities by synthetic products) slowed the growth in demand. Increased supplies were the result of record agricultural harvests (in part encouraged by subsidies and increased producer prices), increases in capacity of metals production, and a rundown of inventories, as high interest rates increased the costs of holding stocks.
Because many developing countries still depend heavily on earnings from primary production, the fall in primary-commodity prices during the first half of the 1980s has greatly worsened their terms of trade, reduced the amount of resources available for investment, and contributed to the reduction of the growth rates of output and per capita income (see Table 3-3). The relative weight of external factors on the economic performance of countries is notoriously difficult to isolate; it depends on underlying economic structures, which, in turn, depend largely on past policy choices. Yet, the fall in commodity prices in the 1980s has clearly compounded the already severe adjustment problems of many developing countries and significantly hurt their economic performance.
The decline in the terms of trade of primary producers continued, and, in some respects, accelerated, in 1986. The dollar price of oil was cut in half, and the prices of nonoil primary commodities rose only marginally, despite the rapid depreciation of the dollar. Economies weakened by successive years of falling terms of trade and per capita incomes were again hit by a serious deterioration in the external environment.
Prices, earnings, and growth. Oil-exporting countries suffered a severe terms-of-trade loss in 1986. The spot price of oil fell dramatically, from an average $27 a barrel in 1985 to $14 in 1986. Over the past few years, slow growth in the world economy and the maintenance of high prices through production agreements had led to a general fall in the demand for oil and a fall in the market share of countries that are
members of OPEC. As a result, the oil revenues of OPEC countries have declined at a time when adjustment to reduced external finance and high interest rates has increased some members' need for foreign exchange. Disagreements within OPEC were exacerbated by discounts offered by various members to increase their market share.
The oil-price fall was precipitated by a change in policy by some OPEC countries in favor of increased oil production and a larger market share. OPEC crude oil output rose from 14.9 million barrels a day in the third quarter of 1985 to 19.3 million barrels a day in the third quarter of 1986, with Saudi Arabia accounting for more than half of the increment in production. The price collapsed to almost $10 a barrel by mid year, before rising to about $17 a barrel by the first quarter of 1987.
The sharp drop in the price of oil severely depressed the incomes of oil-exporting developing countries and reduced remittance payments and their demand for other countries' exports. They reacted to the 42 percent decline in their terms of trade by reducing import volumes by 22 percent in 1986. Their GDP fell by 1.1 percent, and GNY plunged by 10 percent, or by 12 percent per capita. The need to avoid even more severe declines in consumption meant that investment had to be cut back. The decline in imports and investment could have been twice as steep were it not for some increase in external finance. Oil-exporting countries, whose current-account deficit (excluding official transfers) rose from $2 billion in 1985 to $19 billion in 1986, were thus left with even lower productive capacity and higher levels of debt relative to their economies.
The benefit from the oil-price fall to developing countries that export mainly primary commodities other than oil was offset by stagnation in their export prices, as well as large increases in the United States dollar prices of
imported manufactured goods. The average dollar price of developing countries' nonoil primary-commodity exports rose by only 1 percent in 1986, despite the rapid depreciation of the dollar. Dollar prices of nonoil primary commodities actually fell substantially throughout the year; the higher average level in 1986 compared with the previous year was thus entirely accounted for by price increases in the latter part of 1985. Relative to prices of manufactured exports, the price of nonoil primary commodities fell by 16 percent between 1985 and 1986.
This decline reflected both continued growth in supplies of a number of commodities and slow growth of demand. Average coffee prices were much higher in 1986 than the year before, as drought reduced Brazil's crop by almost half; the recovery of production in that country caused prices to drop towards the end of the year. Record grain production, high levels of stocks, and changes in United States farm policy severely reduced prices, and the overall price of cereals declined by 12 percent in dollar
terms. Changes in United States farm policy were also mainly responsible for the 20 percent reduction in cotton prices. Very large increases in jute production in Bangladesh and India led to a more than 50 percent fall in prices. At the same time, slow growth in industrial production (particularly in the United States and Japan) was largely responsible for an 8 percent fall in the average dollar price of metals and minerals exported by developing countries. The collapse of the price-supporting activities of the International Tin Agreement was directly responsible for the reduction of tin prices by almost half. Poor demand growth in recent years has made the operation of price-supporting agreements very difficult.
Thus, despite the sharp drop in the price of oil. the terms of trade of countries that export primary commodities other than oil improved only marginally. (See Table 3-4.) Although the GDP of these countries increased by an estimated 3.4 percent (a considerable improvement compared with the preceding five years), it was still far below historical rates for developing countries. Sub-Saharan African countries were particularly affected by low commodity prices. Many are heavily dependent on a few primary commodities for most of their export revenues, and they lack the flexibility
that can enable them to switch quickly to other export products in the face of price declines. Some sub-Saharan countries achieved a relatively high rate of growth of export volumes, only to see revenues fall as excess supply reduced prices. Others suffered declines in both price and volume as a result of slow-growth of demand. The volume of imports of nonoil-exporting countries in sub-Saharan Africa probably rose by less than 3 percent, thus remaining at a level more than 20 percent below that of 1980. Per capita GDP in the region is estimated to have increased less than 1 percent.
In contrast to declines or stagnation in primary-commodity prices, the average dollar price of developing countries' manufactured imports rose by 17 percent, despite declines in local-currency export prices, due to the effect of the dollar depreciation. The average local-currency price of manufactures exported from major industrial countries fell by about 5 percent, as producers in countries with appreciating currencies cut their profit margins to maintain their market share. Low prices of fuel and other primary inputs permitted a widespread lowering of wholesale producer prices, both in dollar-bloc countries and elsewhere. Even so, dollar prices of internationally traded manufactured goods shot up dramatically.
Exporters of manufactures among the developing countries thus benefited greatly from the combination of the fall in oil prices, the weakness in nonoil primary-commodity prices, and the explosive increase in manufactures prices. In addition, the depreciation of the United States dollar provided a competitive edge for the exports of several of these countries, notably in Asia, which kept their exchange rates against the United States dollar fairly constant. In 1986, the 6 percent increase in export volumes, coupled with the 10 percent improvement in terms of trade, enabled manufactures-exporting countries to increase their imports by 10 percent and reduce their external borrowing. Their collective current- account balance swung from a deficit $9 billion in 1985 to a surplus of $6 billion. The GDP of these countries rose by 7 percent—slower than in 1985, but fully accounted for by the moderation of growth in China, which, in 1985, had been around 12 percent.
Recently, concern has been expressed over the size of trade surpluses achieved by some developing countries, particularly in their role in reducing demand for the products of industrial countries. For a number of developing countries with well-developed manufacturing sectors, the rise in trade surpluses over the past few years reflected the improvement in competitiveness as the United States dollar became overvalued. Higher surpluses were also encouraged by concerns over debt levels in today's uncertain international environment. For highly indebted countries, large trade surpluses are required in order to service their debt. Indeed, many of these countries are urged by private lenders to increase further their trade surpluses to reduce their reliance on "new money" to finance their interest obligations, and, ultimately, even reduce the size of debt relative to their economies.
Debt and financing. The past year saw little relief from the difficulties surrounding the financing problems of the highly indebted, middle-income countries. In some respects, the difficulties these countries experienced in managing their economies in the presence of excessive levels of external debt increased. The oil-price drop and stagnation in dollar-denominated, nonoil primary-commodity prices greatly complicated adjustment efforts. Worsening terms of trade and stagnation in export volumes meant that import volumes rose by only about 3 percent. Import volumes would have fallen had it not been for increased external resources; their combined current-account deficit increased from about zero in 1985 to $12 billion in 1986 (see Table 3-5). The GDP of highly indebted countries rose by only 2.5
percent. Although the deterioration in the external environment was softened somewhat by the fall in dollar interest rates, for some countries, the fall in the dollar increased the burden of debt relative to their economies. The average debt-service ratio of highly indebted countries rose from 34 percent in 1985 to 37 percent in 1986, as export revenues dropped.
Some countries, in which real incomes were enhanced by the direct effect of cheaper oil, missed opportunities to increase investment and improve the balance-of-payments position. Sharp changes in relative prices tended to complicate and delay the conduct of stabilization policies and disrupted plans for enhanced external financing. Under these circumstances, the energies of the international financial community tended to focus on the most egregious hardship cases.
The serious situation facing lower-income debtors in sub-Saharan Africa was also a major feature of 1986. Debt-service and debt-to-GNP ratios for sub-Saharan Africa rose significantly, reflecting declines in export revenues, low rates of output growth, and the rollover of existing liabilities and refinancings of interest due. Over the past two years, twenty African countries have been involved in negotiations with the Paris Club for some form of debt relief. For some countries, renegotiation of debt has become an almost annual affair, indicating severe long-term problems. Some countries have rescheduled payments due on previously rescheduled debt, and capitalization of interest payments is not uncommon. It is becoming evident that several countries will not be able to return to acceptable rates of growth unless there is some scaling down of their external obligations. The question remains: How can these obligations be reduced without impairing the long-term access of these countries to external finance and without setting precedents for countries in less straightened circumstances?
The severe difficulties that many developing countries face were reflected in their lack of access to external financial markets. Developing countries' collective current-account deficit equaled $36 billion, about the same level as in 1985. This deficit was largely covered by exceptional forms of financing ("exceptional finance"), which includes concerted lending provided as a result of agreements negotiated between developing countries and their creditors, plus changes in arrears. Apart from exceptional finance, developing countries, in the aggregate, probably experienced small net outflows of financial capital in 1986.
To make matters worse, whatever external capital was available (including exceptional
finance) had to be used to cover interest payments, rather than investment. The average six-month, United States dollar London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), which is used as a base rate for much of the floating-rate, private-source debt held by developing countries, fell from 8.6 percent in 1985 to 6.8 percent. Unfortunately, this fall did not reduce significantly the net outflow of long-term financial resources from developing countries, for net disbursements to them also declined in 1986. Developing countries paid out in interest payments on long-term debt about S30 billion more than they received in the form of net disbursements of long-term loans from both private and official sources, or an amount about the same as in 1985. This figure for the "net resource transfer" does not include as a disbursement the grant portion of official development assistance. (Nor does it include inflows of direct investment, which amounted to $12 billion in 1986.) (See Table 3-6.) Nonetheless, even including all net official transfers as a disbursement, developing countries paid out $15 billion more in debt service than they received in long-term finance.
Formal negotiations of debt service permitted some developing countries to continue to run a sizable deficit on current account in 1986; even more severe cutbacks in their imports and in the exports of the industrial countries were thereby avoided. An important agreement was reached between Mexico and private creditors that provided for a restructuring of previously rescheduled debt of $43.7 billion, a commitment of $6 billion in new money, contingency arrangements for additional money in case of further deterioration in the terms of trade or weaker-than-expected growth, and a reduction of spreads on existing debt. Multiyear rescheduling agreements were reached with the Congo, Cote dTvoire, and Uruguay, with the latter two countries receiving new long-term loans under cofinancing agreements with the World Bank. Brazil, Nigeria, Poland, Uruguay, and Zaire also negotiated debt-relief agreements with the commercial banks. In 1986, developing countries restructured $71 billion in debt, received $2.6 billion in new money (not including loans under the Mexican agreement, which were disbursed in early 1987), achieved some narrowing of spreads.
and arranged for short-term credit facilities to ease cash-flow problems.
Aside from these few agreements, however, the record of debt negotiations in 1986 was disappointing. Commercial banks were reluctant to conclude multiyear rescheduling agreements with most of the major debtors, and, apart from the commitment to Mexico and a smaller agreement with Nigeria, the amount of new money made available to the highly indebted countries was minimal. Many of the smaller banks were particularly reluctant to participate in rescheduling agreements or provide new loans to developing countries. Over the past four years, commercial banks have greatly reduced their exposure in developing countries relative to their net worth and their total assets; that trend became more pronounced in 1986. As exposure is reduced, banks understandably become less interested in seeking or accepting cooperative arrangements with official lenders. The recent increases in major banks' loan-loss reserves may signal a tougher bargaining position in future rescheduling negotiations. At the same time, indicators of creditworthiness have continued to deteriorate for most of the highly indebted
countries. In addition, some have built up substantial arrears on both interest and principal that have not been regularized through rescheduling agreements. A growing reluctance by banks to increase their exposure, declining creditworthiness caused by terms-of-trade shocks, and a build-up of arrears in some countries do not augur well for the forthcoming rounds of negotiations. Nevertheless, the world faces many more years of these negotiations.
Adjustment policies and international assistance. Faced with a difficult external environment, developing countries made substantial progress in 1986 in implementing reforms to improve the functioning of their economies. Some highly indebted countries instituted abrupt policy changes to control inflation in an attempt to restore a more stable macroeconomic environment. Initial successes have been registered, although the battle against inflation is never easily won, and reactions to crash programs are apt to create the need for further measures. Equally important, a number of countries have instituted policy reforms to improve the efficiency of public enterprises, increase the role of the market in allocating
resources, liberalize trade regimes, and encourage greater private savings. The renewed commitment to appropriate macroeconomic and microeconomic policies, despite difficult political and social constraints, has been reassuring. The World Bank continued in fiscal 1987 to commit substantial resources in support of adjustments in highly indebted countries. This support is reflected in increased staff time devoted to their problems, assistance in mobilizing external finance, and increased lending. World Bank disbursements to heavily indebted countries rose by over 50 percent in fiscal 1987 compared with the previous year.
Many countries in sub-Saharan Africa have successfully reduced government deficits, corrected overvalued exchange rates, and reduced price distortions. A continuation and strengthening of these efforts are vital if they are to overcome their problems; a continued commitment of external capital is also vital. Both the International Monetary Fund and the Bank have recently increased their commitments to low-income countries, the former through its new structural-adjustment facility and the latter through increases provided by IDA and the Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa. Because bilateral aid has increased little, however, total official development assistance to sub-Saharan Africa remained at virtually the same level in nominal dollars in 1986 as in 1980.
Thus, despite strenuous efforts on the part of official multilateral creditors and substantial advances in the adjustment programs of developing countries, sufficient external finance has not been made available to countries that have high levels of external debt. Reluctance on the part of commercial banks to increase their exposure in the middle-income countries has been matched by stagnation in official assistance to low-income countries. Virtually the only developing countries with easy access to external borrowing are the more successful East Asian exporters of manufactures, and, at least in the short run, they have little need for foreign capital and little willingness to borrow
net new money. Industrial and developing countries have a strong collective interest in avoiding both a more serious lapse of confidence between debtors and creditors and a further deterioration in living standards in the poorest countries. The question remains whether creditors have enough political will and a sufficiently enlighted self-interest to ensure an adequate flow of financial resources to developing countries during the lengthy period of macroeconomic restructuring that lies ahead.
Official Development Assistance
Net disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) from member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DACF of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to the developing countries in 1986 amounted to an estimated $37.0 billion, up 2.5 percent in volume terms over the level in 1985. Net disbursements of ODA from DAC countries represented 0.36 percent of these countries' GNP. Only five countries (Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden) provided more than 0.7 percent of their GNP in development assistance, which is the target set by the United Nations for the Second and Third Development Decades.
Provisional data for 1986 indicate that OPEC countries provided $4.5 billion in net disbursements of ODA to developing countries, a rise—despite the sharp fall in income from petroleum—of $0.9 billion from 1985. These countries provided 0.9 percent of their GNP in net disbursements of ODA, most of which is in the form of "untied" assistance. In particular, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait continued to provide a substantial share of GNP as ODA—4.5 percent and 3.0 percent, respectively.
5 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada. Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany. Ireland. Italy. Japan, the Netherlands. New Zealand. Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
Section Four
Bank Policies and Activities; IBRD Finances
Bank Policies
Financial Aspects of Guarantees
The World Bank's use of its guarantee authority—the Bank's founders thought it would figure prominently in its operations—has always been limited. Although the volume of guarantees remains small today, it has increased in recent years as an instrument of the B-loan cofinancing program and as a catalyst to complete concerted lending packages that might not otherwise have come together.
As part of the cofinancing program, the Bank guarantees the later maturities of a loan made by commercial banks and thus provides an incentive for the colenders to fund longer maturities than would otherwise be the case. Such guarantees have been used very sparingly and have been authorized in three cases to date.
In addition, on a selected basis, in connection with concerted lending packages, the Bank's guarantee has been extended to Chile, Mexico, and Uruguay. In these cases, although only a portion of the entire financing was covered by the Bank's guarantee, it was instrumental in bringing about commercial-bank lending and debt-restructuring packages for all three countries.
Although the guarantees have been used only sparingly and selectively, the increase in their use led the Bank, in fiscal 1987, to set out formally policies governing several aspects of their financial management. How should guarantees be counted for the purpose of calculating the Bank's statutory lending limit,1 as well as its sustainable level of lending?2 What assumption about guarantee calls should be made for planning and managing the Bank's borrowings and liquidity?3 With regard to country-exposure limitations on Bank lending, how should guarantee commitments be counted?4 How widespread should the Bank's use of its guarantee authority be in concerted lending situations?
Guarantees and the calculation of the statutory lending limit and the sustainable level of lending. In applying the Articles of Agreement to loans, the Bank has adopted policies on the management of its loan commitments that are designed to ensure that its volume of
disbursed and outstanding loans—rather than commitments—does not exceed its subscribed capital and reserves. Although guarantees form part of the Bank's commitments, they represent a contingent obligation and hence carry a different risk. A guarantee, for instance, may never be called. But, if called, guarantees represent an irrevocable obligation to disburse.
It was therefore recommended, and subsequently endorsed by the executive board, that the Bank would provide full capital backing to all outstanding guarantee commitments at their current value (the face value less amounts
1 The Bank's Articles of Agreement state that "the total amount outstanding of guarantees, participations in loans, and direct loans made by the Bank shall not be increased at any time, if, by such an increase, the total would exceed 100 percent of the unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus of the Bank." The Bank is thus obliged to manage its affairs so as to ensure that it does not enter into loan or guarantee commitments that would create the risk that disbursements would exceed its capital and reserves.
2 So as to remain within the statutory lending limit and to avoid making commitments that would necessitate an increase of the Bank's capital, the Bank has in place a system to determine the upper limit to the rate of loan commitments that would not result in a disruptive reduction in future commitments. This commitment rate, called the sustainable level of lending, represents the maximum level of lending that can be sustained indefinitely while ensuring that the volume of loans disbursed and outstanding remains within the statutory lending limit.
3 The Bank's management of its borrowing and liquidity is carried out to ensure that its liquidity position is sufficient to allow the Bank to meet its contractual obligations and to maintain a generally stable presence in the capital markets in which it borrows. New borrowings and liquidity drawdowns can be used to meet cash needs. The Bank's borrowing program seeks, therefore, to draw a balance between maintaining a steady market presence and holding liquidity to a level that is within the target range—currently 40 percent to 45 percent of the total of net cash requirements of the next three years and of short-term borrowings outstanding.
4 Because, under its Articles of Agreement, the Bank must ensure that its loan and guarantee commitments are carried out with due respect to a borrower's prospective creditworthiness, the Bank has guidelines, to be applied flexibly, that limit its share of a country's external debt and that limit its exposure to any one country to roughly 10 percent of its loan portfolio.
repaid) on the day they become callable, irrespective of the unlikelihood of an actual call. This means that the management of all new Bank commitments will be arranged so that even if all guarantees are called on the first possible call date, there will be enough capital and reserves to cover the total amount of disbursed loans (net of repayments) and of all such guarantees.
This recommendation was also adopted for the purpose of calculating the Bank's sustainable level of lending, and guarantees will be integrated into the Bank's sustainable lending-level policy by treating them as "loans" that disburse fully at the time of the first call date.
Guarantees and planning the Bank's borrowing operations and liquidity policy. In recent years, the Bank's liquidity level has been subject to unusual fluctuations caused by uncertainties surrounding the pace of disbursements on loans that have been committed. Since guarantees have been such a small portion of the Bank's activities, they do not materially change the aggregate picture. Nevertheless, for reasons of prudent financial management, the Bank proposed, and the executive directors agreed, that financial planning be based on the assumption that at least some guarantees might be called when due. But, because the consequences on the Bank's financial management of underestimating the likelihood of guarantees being called are somewhat less important than a breach in its statutory lending limit, it was decided to assume for the former purpose a guarantee call rate of 50 percent. This rate would be subject to review and would be changed by the management of the Bank with the concurrence of the executive board whenever the circumstances so warranted.
Guarantees and country-exposure limits. Guarantees are characterized by their unambiguous nature with respect to commitments to disburse. Given, therefore, their unconditional nature, all guarantee commitments should be counted in full at the time they become callable with regard to limits on country exposure. But, since guarantees have been, and will continue to be, made on a very selective basis, especially in concerted-lending situations, and as guarantees have been kept at a relatively small percentage of a country's overall financial needs, they have not had a material effect on the Bank's lending program.
Structural-adjustment Lending Review
In 1980. the World Bank, in response to a rapidly worsening international situation and to the resultant difficulties faced by many developing countries, introduced a new lending instrument: structural-adjustment lending
(SAL). Simply put, structural-adjustment lending was then, and remains, nonproject lending in support of programs, policies, and institutional change necessary to modify the structure of an economy so that it can restore or maintain its growth and viability in its balance of payments over the medium term.
In the intervening seven years, the Bank's SAL program has been reviewed on numerous occasions by the executive board (see, for example, the Annual Report of the World Bank for fiscal years 1980, 1981, 1982, and 1985). In fiscal 1987, a first review of experience with the program was undertaken by the Bank's independent operations evaluation department (OED).
Based on performance audit reports of fifteen SALs in ten countries, the review concluded that the SAL experience has been mixed and made observations—generally endorsed by the executive directors—for future preparation and implementation of SAL operations.
The OED study reports that none of the ten succeeded in fully implementing the reforms on schedule. Nevertheless, in four countries receiving SALs—Cote dTvoire, Jamaica, Thailand, and Turkey—there was clear and substantial achievement. In four others—Kenya, Pakistan, the Philippines, and Senegal—performance was satisfactory in some areas, but less so in others. Two countries, Bolivia and Guyana, experienced difficulties in carrying out major elements of their programs within the agreed time frame.5
Implementation performance varied considerably between components of the programs. For most countries, ensuring the right combination of demand management and nominal exchange-rate policies necessary to stimulate exports was a difficult task. Equally, the effective implementation of import-liberalization programs met with serious deterrents, although there was some reduction in quantitative restrictions, and, in some cases, reduction in the average rate of nominal protection.6
However, while progress was initially slow, budgetary performance eventually improved in most of the countries, and experience with pricing policies was generally positive. Rationalization of public expenditures was an important component, and the quality and com-
3 Details of Bolivia's current adjustment program are found on page 114.
* Some participants in the Bank-Fund symposium on growth-oriented adjustment programs (see page 63) felt that, in some countries, the liberalization process was proceeding too fast and without due consideration to harmful effects on local industries and that stabilization should be completed first.
Learning from Experience in Senegal
Design problems common to most early SALs affected die first structural-adjustment operation for Senegal, approved in December 1980. The OED evaluation concluded that while social and political risks were acknowledged by the Bank, operational conclusions were not drawn from the assessment, and the risks were underestimated. There was also a failure to coordinate external financial assistance, as well as the policy stance of donors. The use of quantitative targets for performance evaluation was not considered useful, as baseline data were too weak.
In designing a second SAL operation—approved in February 1986—strong efforts were made to generate a consensus within the government on required policies and measures. The Bank spent almost a year coordinating intensively with the ministries involved in the preparation of the medium-term strategic framework, supporting these efforts with appropriate economic and sector work. These efforts were complemented by an
energetic policy dialogue by the Bank's resident representative in the country.
Harmonization of the goals and strategies of the aid group for Senegal, the Bank, and the International Monetary Fund facilitated a strong commitment by the government to structural adjustment and created a cooperative atmosphere in which to design tranche conditions. These were narrowed down to a few key areas, and while "expected measures" were still included in the agreement between the Bank and Senegal, they did not constitute conditions for tranche release.
To minimize social costs, the program was designed so that the burden of adjustment would be more evenly distributed. For example, lower subsidies on fertilizers and seeds were offset by higher producer prices; a reduction in the cadre of civil servants was matched by schemes to provide credit for retraining them for employment in the private sector; and improvement in the quality of investment was expected to lead to higher growth and employment.
position of public-investment programs improved in most of the countries reviewed, although the administrative and institutional frameworks remained fragile. The management of public enterprises improved, but institutional reform proved to be a more lengthy process than that of policy reform.
The OED review cautioned, however, that the conclusions from this first review of experience should be seen as preliminary because it was difficult to distinguish the effect of policy measures supported by a SAL from the effects of other policy measures undertaken by a government, or from the effects of changes in the global economic environment and major unforeseeen events in a country, such as prolonged drought or sudden changes in government. The study concluded that SALs had provided the basis for assisting a country's long-term restructuring efforts, while simultaneously reinforcing the "development dialogue" between governments and the Bank.
As both the Bank and borrowing countries learned by doing, the Bank made mistakes in some areas. It strengthened its abilities in others. And, as the study reported, the Bank was able to learn from shortcomings in earlier SALs when it came time to design "repeater" SALs in the same country (see accompanying box).
These are some of the shortcomings that characterized the earlier SALs:
• Bank staff were overoptimistic in their expectations concerning the time required to
implement structural reforms and their effect on the economy of the borrowing country.
• Early SALs were too complex, and the conditions attached to releasing future disbursements ("tranching") to ensure implementation were too wide ranging. The ability of many governments to move quickly to adopt far-reaching reforms was overtaxed. This problem also affected project implementation.
• Several SALs ran too far ahead of government commitment to reform, and funds were disbursed against promises of future action, not in support of actions already under way. In the two cases in which key reforms were put into place by the government before board approval of the SAL, the programs were implemented best.
On the positive side:
• SALs proved to be an effective instrument in providing quick-disbursing funds. In the ten countries, the proceeds from SALs financed an average of 10 percent of balance-of-payments deficits.
• SALs played a major role in focusing the attention of governments on structural problems and the links among various policy instruments.
• SALs provided the Bank with a lending instrument that could address the need for economywide reform in ways that normal project lending could not.
• They enhanced the effectiveness of, and rendered more operationally significant, the Bank's country economic and sector work.
• And although room for improvement still exists, particularly in coordination of exchange-rate policies, cooperation between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund was enhanced, thus improving the quality and consistency of policy advice.
The study made a number of recommendations for future operations, many of which had been incorporated into SALs approved since the most recent (fiscal 1983) of the fifteen audited operations. Four, however, stood out.
The Bank, to the extent possible, should seek to assist countries to "internalize" the process of formulating policy reforms—that is, reforms designed by the country itself and incorporated into longer-term development plans. This ideal, in practice, the report cautioned, can be achieved only in varying degrees, depending on the level of skills in the country concerned.
SALs are not a panacea and they are not the only instrument through which the Bank can assist developing countries implement a program of policy reforms. Sometimes, sector-
adjustment lending and "normal" (investment) projects supported by free-standing technical assistance, can serve a comparable purpose. The ideal should be to use the appropriate operational instruments to address the different policy reforms needed.
SALs should be more narrowly focused. With a narrower focus, they would be better geared to the implementation capacity of many countries and would thus help avoid the temptation to load a SAL operation with complex conditions that cannot realistically be expected to be implemented fully.
Improved country economic and sector work, designed and executed with the participation of officials from developing countries, would help the Bank to understand better why the economic performance of SAL countries generally has lagged behind expectations, to design more realistic programs, and to enhance its ability to monitor the implementation of adjustment lending more effectively.
Bank Activities
Economic Development Institute
Fiscal year 1987 marked the mid point of the Economic Development Institute's (EDI) five-year plan for fiscal years 1985-89. The plan called for a sizable expansion in training and institutional assistance. It also emphasized the need to concentrate EDI's training activities more on seminars with a high development-policy content and less on project-analysis courses, as well as the need to support the developing countries' own training institutions. Meeting the needs of sub-Saharan Africa was to be given special attention.
A mid-term assessment of overall progress in implementing the plan showed that EDI's programs have increased beyond the scale envisaged. This is mainly the result of increased cooperation with developing countries' institutes and greatly expanded support from other international and bilateral organizations. Table 4-1 summarizes EDI's teaching and institutional-assistance activities for fiscal years 1983-87.
The principal expansion has been in policy-related training, with the emphasis on macro-economic and sector management. EDI organized fifteen senior policy seminars in fiscal 1987. Lasting from one to five days, these seminars are designed for policymakers and other officials leading their countries' development efforts. With a focus on development-policy issues, the seminars provide an opportunity for structured exchanges of experience among the practitioners invited and Bank staff and outside experts taking part.
EDI organized forty economic and sector-management seminars in fiscal year 1987, more than twice the number in 1984. These seminars, which are from one to six weeks in duration, elaborate on the content of senior policy seminars, are designed for senior staff in economic and sectoral ministries, and cover such additional subjects as debt management and, more recently, natural-resource management.
EDI has also doubled the number of training-of-trainers seminars—from eleven in 1984 to about twenty a year during the period 1985-87.
These seminars, which last from one to five weeks, strengthen trainers' skills and deal with managerial issues in training programs and institutions in developing countries.
In fiscal 1987, with grant funding from the government of Japan, the Bank established the World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program, administered by the EDI. The program finances graduate studies leading to a higher degree in a development-related social science and is open to applicants from member countries of the Bank, and mainly from developing countries, who have at least two years of recent experience in a public agency or public-service organization engaged in development-related activities and who intend to pursue a career in a development field. The applicants must already hold a bachelor's degree or its equivalent from a recognized university and have a superior academic record. For their graduate studies, they must also have gained admittance to a recognized university center renowned for its development research and teaching.
The scholarship includes full tuition, allowances for subsistence, travel, and other related expenses. With an initial grant of $1 million, thirty-five scholarships have been awarded for the 1987-88 academic year.
Reflecting the special emphasis on sub-Saharan Africa, EDI is now associated with more than twenty training institutes in the region, compared with five in fiscal year 1984. A little less than half of EDI's budget was allocated to activities for sub-Saharan Africa in fiscal 1987, compared with 38 percent in fiscal years 1983-84.
EDI's five-year plan foresaw that work to strengthen the training institutions in developing countries would become increasingly important. Today, nine out of every ten courses and seminars are conducted overseas, most of them in cooperation with national and regional training institutes. EDI also supports these institutes in the design and delivery of their courses and in broader issues of staff and program development. Since fiscal 1984, the
number of partner training institutes with which EDI works in developing countries has roughly doubled (to eighty-five). Besides training institutions and universities, these partner institutions include research bodies and training units in operating agencies. Support to partners expanded substantially in fiscal 1987, as joint courses were held with fifty of them and other types of assistance were provided to fifty-two.
EDI has continued to increase its output of training materials. The share of its budget devoted to the production of training materials was about 18 percent in fiscal years 1986-87, compared with 14 percent in fiscal years 1983-84. These materials have permitted the development of about a dozen new curricula a year. About 70 percent of this investment has been devoted to macroeconomic or sector-policy issues. Case-study preparation has benefited greatly from the pairing of scholars from developing and industrial countries. In this way, nine African scholars have worked on case studies illustrating successful approaches to specific development problems in Africa. In fiscal 1987, about thirty-two items were added to EDI's catalogue, and another twenty-five are being reviewed and edited for publication.
Cofinancing of EDI activities amounted to S4.6 million in fiscal 1987. The most important collaborators continued to be the United Nations Development Programme and the International Fund for Agricultural Development. While strong links continue with other international agencies, notably the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements and the World Health Organization, support has increased from bilateral agencies, including those of Australia, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United Kingdom.
To get a mid-term reading on the effectiveness of its new activities under the five-year plan, the EDI conducted a series of field studies and other evaluations in 1986. The field studies, carried out with the help of the Bank's operations evaluation department, involved interviews with more than 700 former participants in EDI activities, mainly from Africa and China. The institute submitted an evaluation report to the Bank's executive board in April 1987. The main finding was that the activities emphasized in the five-year plan—policy-related training and institution building, especially in sub-Saharan Africa—are having a desirable effect. Also clear is that the exchange of experience in policy seminars has proved useful to participants, agencies, and countries, as well as to the Bank.
The mid-term evaluation was well received by the board, which commended it as a guide for EDI's work during the remainder of the plan period and beyond. While no major shifts are indicated, the evaluation did suggest that EDI can strengthen the effect of its training and institution-building activities by;
• collaborating more closely with its partner institutions;
• tailoring seminar and course contents to meet specific needs better;
• inviting more teams of participants, rather than individuals, from various countries and agencies;
• creating stronger links between activities aimed at different levels of participants, since the effect of training for mid-level participants depends greatly on the interest of senior policymakers;
• following up on activities more, both to evaluate EDI's own activities and to support participants, especially trainers, when they return home and begin to apply their newly acquired skills; and
• supporting networks of training institutions, rather than offering direct assistance to individual institutions, to ensure an amplified EDI effect on training capacity.
Operations Evaluation
Operations evaluation continues to provide a systematic and independent assessment of Bank operations and activities. Its principal objectives are to account to the Bank's shareholders for the outcome of Bank-supported projects and programs and to feed back that experience into the design and conduct of future operations.
The director-general, operations evaluation, has overall responsibility for the evaluation function. He reports directly to the executive board and is supported by the operations evaluation department (OED). In the reorganized Bank, strong control functions, including operations evaluation, will be essential counterparts to the delegation of authority and decisionmaking to line managers. The mandate of the operations evaluation department, therefore, will remain an important feature in the Bank's organizational structure.
Most OED evaluations fall into two categories: audits of completed projects and programs and special studies that address broader development issues at the country and sector level. During fiscal 1987, performance audits of 110 operations, including six structural-adjustment loans, were disseminated to the board; in addition, completion reports covering 111 further operations were passed on to the executive directors without being audited by OED staff. The cumulative total of Bank operations subjected to ex-post evaluation reached 1,762 by the end of fiscal 1987. Borrowers' comments were sought on all evaluation reports, and, in a growing number of cases, borrowers participated directly in the preparation of reports on completed projects.
The Annual Review of Project Performance Results, covering calendar year 1985, was issued in September 1986 and was subsequently published. The review constitutes an important mechanism for synthesizing the results of operations evaluations by sector and geographical region, and, through a process of discussion and follow-up with policy and operating staff, bringing that experience to bear on the design of future operations. Of the 192 projects covered by the 1985 review, some 80 percent were judged to have been worthwhile. The
remaining 20 percent of the projects were regarded as having either unsatisfactory or uncertain outcomes.
The unfavorable external and internal economic environment of the early 1980s explains, to a considerable extent, the relatively large number of projects with unsatisfactory or uncertain outcomes. Other factors contributing to project failure included deficiencies in project design, the often limited institutional and administrative capacity of borrowers, distortions in sectoral and economywide policies, and inadequate commitment of borrowers to the objectives and priority of projects.
In Africa and in agriculture, the 1985 projects continued to register much higher-than-average rates of failure. Nearly 40 percent of projects in Africa were judged to have unsatisfactory or uncertain results, compared with only 10 percent to 15 percent in other regions, while the failure rate in agriculture was twice as high as that of all other sectors combined.
Several other OED studies were completed in fiscal 1987, the most important being a review of experience with structural-adjustment lending, whose findings are reported elsewhere (see page 54). In addition, impact evaluations for six agricultural projects were completed. The OED also undertook an interim evaluation of the Aga Khan Rural Support Program in the northern areas of Pakistan.
In his "Annual Report on Operations Evaluation," the director-general provided the executive directors with an account of all evaluation activities in the Bank, including not only the work of the OED, but, also, evaluations carried out by the International Finance Corporation, the Economic Development Institute, and the Bank's economics and research staff. The report highlighted issues of current and future concern, especially the need for effective dissemination of lessons from past experience.
The Research Program
The World Bank's research program is shaped by the Bank's own needs as a lending institution and as a source of policy advice to member countries. Its main purposes are to gain new insights into the development process; provide new tools for country, sector, and project analyses; provide the analytical bases for policy formulation and decision; and help strengthen indigenous research capacity in member countries.
Under the guidance of the Research Policy Council, greater emphasis has been given to policy-oriented research and to selected priority areas that have been identified as most
important for supporting the Bank's operations and keeping the Bank at the forefront of the economics of developing countries. These priority areas are the costs and benefits of government interventions, the interplay of incentives and institutions, the international economic environment, the relationship between short-term policies and long-term development, and the role of economic and institutional planning.
A major instrument for influencing the direction, as well as the quality, of Bank research is the allocation of funds from the central research support budget. In fiscal 1987, some twenty-two new research starts were approved for central funding. Half are concerned with public economic issues, such as the role and effects of government interventions and the way institutional arrangements affect various policy measures. Examples include:
A study that will analyze the effects of labor-market regulations on labor costs and their consequential effect on manufacturing export performance in developing countries; a project that will study the effects of recent changes in job-security legislation on employment and output in the manufacturing sectors of India and Zimbabwe; a project that, using case studies of recent privatization measures in developing countries, will identify principal obstacles to, as well as key factors determining the success of, privatization in developing countries; a project, which will investigate whether cuts in government expenditures will have a negative effect on private-sector production and investment, whose aim is to develop a methodology for reducing the size of the government at minimum cost to the private sector; a project that will both design a methodology for evaluating the effect of increased subsidized food prices on various socioeconomic groups and apply it to the case of Morocco; a case study under way in Brazil that examines policy tradeoffs in agricultural price reform that is implemented under conditions of uncertainty and in a multimarket context; and a study that reviews and tests the evidence that there are either efficiency or productivity gains from a more liberal trade regime.
In the area of international economic environment, one study deals with the footware industry as a prototype of an industry's adjustment to nontariff barriers. A second study addresses the question of how developing countries can use international trade in services to enhance their development from the perspective of comparative advantage. And a third project, in the form of a conference, examines the directions that new developments in the theory of political economy have
been taking in the last decade and their implications for international trade-policy issues.
A third category of projects is concerned with macroeconomic issues as they impinge on growth. There is increasing consensus that successful structural adjustment requires prior stabilization of inflation in countries with high rates of inflation. A project will examine the problems associated with stopping inflation, drawing on the experiences of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Israel. Special attention will be paid to the mechanisms through which public-budget deficits, wage-indexation schemes, and exchange-rate policies affect the inflationary process. Another project is analyzing the interactions between increased foreign-capital inflows, national savings, investment, and growth to trace the growth effects of the structural policies currently being proposed by the Bank. A third project is concerned with the effects of macroeconomic shocks on the labor market and the survival of firms in the modern sector of Cote dTvoire. Information to be provided by this research would aid in the consideration of adjustment programs and in the assessment of their costs.
While the Bank's research program has moved to meet new concerns and needs, its primary focus has remained the alleviation of poverty, and much research in this area is particularly concerned with the efficient means of raising the incomes and human capital of the poor, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
In addition, two major studies in the comparative-studies program are concerned directly or indirectly with poverty alleviation. The first, on the political economy of poverty, equity, and growth, is explicitly concerned with the major questions that remain unsettled in past debates on the feasible means of alleviating poverty: Can a substantial attack on poverty be based on a reliance on direct, bureaucratically mediated measures to meet basic needs, or is it best for governments to concentrate instead on increasing long-term growth that alleviates poverty? This study does not prejudge the feasibility of particular distributive policies; rather, it seeks to understand where and why they are undertaken and to what extent they work. An important component of the second comparative study, on macroeconomic policies, crises, and long-term growth, will be to see to what extent and why-governments adjust to periodic crises by choosing to cut expenditures that raise the productivity of the poor.
The results of completed research appear in a variety of formats, including articles in professional journals and books published under the World Bank imprint or by independent
publishers (for example, World Bank Discussion Papers and the annual World Development Report, respectively). The Bank publishes two professional journals that are designed to be its main channels of disseminating research. They are The World Bank Economic Review, issued three times a year, and The World Bank Research Observer, issued twice a year. News on research initiatives and highlights of research findings are reported in Research News on a quarterly basis. The Bank's wide-ranging research portfolio is updated annually in Abstracts of Current Studies.
Interagency Cooperation
In his first annual meeting address (September 1986), the president of the World Bank, Barber B. Conable, reaffirmed that the Bank's central challenge—to mobilize the will and the resources of the rich and poor alike in the global battle against poverty—remained essentially unchanged.
In pursuing this objective, the Bank is increasing its cooperation with international and bilateral agencies, particularly in addressing poverty concerns arising from the implementation of adjustment programs. Specifically, the Bank is working with the World Food Programme and the United States Agency for International Development to reduce adjustment costs, through food aid, for the urban and rural poor, and with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) in expanding low-cost programs of maternal/child health care. In collaboration with WHO and UNFPA, the Bank cosponsored a conference on Safe Motherhood in Nairobi in February 1987 (for details, see page 31). On a number of other health-sector programs of particular benefit to the poor, the Bank and WHO continue to cooperate in such areas as the Onchocerciasis—riverblindness—Control Programme, the Program for the Control of Diarrheal Diseases, and the Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases.
In a collaborative effort, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements, and the Bank have developed technologies for shelter and sanitation that are affordable to the poor. The Bank and UNICEF are also promoting low-cost water supply and sanitation projects in Latin America and East Africa.
Interorganizational measures to improve the quality and quantity of development assistance, particularly in Africa, continue to be given high priority. Under the UNDP Regional Programme for Africa, the Bank serves as
executing agency for a project aimed at assessing the social dimensions of structural adjustment in sub-Saharan Africa. The project's advisory committee is composed of senior representatives from the UNDP, the Economic Commission for Africa, the Bank, and other UN agencies. Reflecting the African governments' need for improved assessments and national programs for human resources and technical cooperation, the Bank has recently agreed to take an active part in the National Technical Cooperation Assessments and Programmes, launched by the UNDP.
Again focusing on Africa's specific needs, the International Labour Organization, the UNDP, and the Bank are collaborating on several labor-intensive construction, maintenance, and employment- generating projects in a number of countries.
Addressing the needs of another disadvantaged group, the Bank and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees have recently agreed on principles of collaboration in the planning, financing, and implementation of projects aimed at promoting self-reliance through agricultural and other employment-creating opportunities for refugees and returners. Discussions are continuing on the implementation of such employment-generating and resettlement projects in Pakistan and Somalia.
Relations with governmental and nongovernmental groups. The Bank has relations with a variety of governmental and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). A senior-level dialogue between the Bank and the European Communities (EC) is a permanent feature of Bank cooperation with development agencies. During fiscal 1987, discussions with the EC focused on key development-policy issues, such as aid coordination in sub-Saharan Africa, the forthcoming negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, international debt strategy, and relations with NGOs. Collaboration between Bank and EC staff on country economic and sector work also continued, as the implementation phase of the Third Lome Convention got under way.
The contribution of NGOs to grassroots development and the alleviation of poverty was the subject of increased attention. Many self-help groups (cooperatives, credit unions, women's groups) and philanthropic organizations (foundations, private voluntary organizations, religious groups) work in the areas of health, education, rural and urban development, social forestry, and microenterprise development. Many NGOs endeavor to raise public awareness on interdependence and economic-development issues, often in a perspective of the
alleviation of poverty and environmental preservation. An example of such efforts in which the Bank played a major role was the World NGO Symposium held in Tokyo in October 1986.
Pursuing its policy of encouraging borrowers to take NGO activities into account in the design and implementation of Bank-assisted projects, the Bank greatly expanded its program of trilateral (government-NGO-agency) consultations. Three workshops on health and population were organized in Gisenyi (Rwanda), Banjul (The Gambia), and Quito (Ecuador). Another meeting in Abidjan (Cote dTvoire), focused on low-cost options for rural water supply. Bank staff made substantive contributions to similar trilateral regional workshops organized by NGOs, most notably those held on social forestry, agroforestry. and the environment in Nairobi (Kenya), Panama City (Panama), and Bangkok (Thailand), respectively. The Bank also helped organize government-NGO consultations on rural development in northeast Brazil.
The Bank-NGO Committee, a forum for discussions with a selected group of NGOs worldwide, held its sixth annual meeting in Washington, D.C. in November 1986. The committee was received by the Bank's president and reviewed recent collaborative initiatives, including the Bank's support to Togo to facilitate official cofinancing of NGO projects, ajoint Bank-NGO mission to explore possibilities for collaboration in Western Africa, and the extensive Bank operational program involving NGOs in the areas of population, health, and nutrition. Views were also exchanged on current issues on the international economic agenda, such as international trade, capital flows, and the effect of debt and adjustment on the poor.
A significant addition to the Bank's interaction with NGOs has been stimulated by two topical issues in development—the potential negative effects of large-scale development projects on the environment and of structural adjustment on the poor. Consultations with NGOs, both within and outside the Bank-NGO Committee, have dealt extensively with the concerns of both environmental and poverty-oriented groups. Their views are increasingly taken into consideration in the formulation of appropriate development strategies. A meeting of NGO leaders and Bank staff was organized in Washington, D.C. in September 1986 to discuss poverty and policy reform in Africa. A follow-up meeting in June 1987 brought together NGO leaders and Bank staff to discuss how the poverty and environmental aspects of development are interrelated.
Relations between the Bank and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and its Development Assistance Committee (DAC) remain strong. Bank staff participated regularly in OECD and DAC meetings at the ministerial and working-party levels on various issues, including the effectiveness of aid-coordination mechanisms, aid evaluation and reporting, aid for health and population activities, and environmental problems. (See Table 4-2 for a listing of aid-coordination group meetings chaired by the Bank during the past fiscal year.)
Bank staff responded to many inquiries from the OECD secretariat, which was preparing a pilot meeting with DAC members and aid donors that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The meeting focused on the practical problems of aid coordination; the test case chosen was the coordination of technical assistance to the irrigation sector in Senegal. Bank staff also supported DAC's preparation of a number of studies, including papers on project-appraisal techniques and regional aid-coordination mechanisms. During fiscal 1987, regular consultations were also held between the staff of the Bank and the OECD on such ongoing issues as concessional flows, debt reporting and analysis, trade, research, and global economic prospects.
Collaboration between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (the Fund) has increased in recent years as countries work to implement adjustment programs aimed at restoring or maintaining growth in the medium term. In fiscal 1987, the two institutions, together with governments concerned, prepared a series of policy-framework papers that describe the nature of the economic problems confronting a country, the governments' objectives of macroeconomic and structural-adjustment policies to be pursued over the next three years, the broad thrust of policies aimed at those objectives, and priorities of the authorities in addressing their economic problems. They also identify the financing requirements and likely sources of financing. The papers serve as an overall framework on the basis of which adjustment programs will be formulated that will be supported by the Fund's structural-adjustment facility and by the Bank's adjustment-lending operations. They also aim at helping mobilize resources from other multilateral sources and bilateral donors in support of the authorities' adjustment efforts.
Intensified collaboration between the Bank and the Fund in helping developing countries to design growth-oriented adjustment programs and to mobilize the financing needed to
carry them out is an important element in the reinforced debt strategy. Accordingly, a joint (and first-ever) Bank-Fund symposium on growth-oriented adjustment programs was held in Washington, D.C. to increase understanding of at least several important issues. These included (a) the combination of macroeconomic and structural policies that offers the best approach to achieving adjustment with growth; (b) the broad lessons for growth and adjustment that can be drawn from alternative policy strategies followed by different developing countries in the past; and (c) the role of, and prospects for, equity financing, commercial bank lending, and official capital flows in growth-oriented adjustment programs.
Participation in the symposium was on a tripartite basis and comprised outside participants from the academic, official, and private sectors, executive directors from both the Bank and the Fund, and staff of the two institutions. The proceedings of the symposium are scheduled to be jointly published in fiscal year 1988.
Cooperation in agricultural research. The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is an informal association of forty public and private donors that collectively funds a worldwide network of thir-
teen agricultural-research centers. The work of the centers covers most of the world's major food crops, as well as research on animal-production systems and food policy.
Despite difficult economic times and funding constraints, donor commitment to the CGIAR remains high in recognition of the high rates of return achieved from previous investments in agricultural research. This steady commitment was continued in 1986 with significant positive effect on contributions from many industrial countries resulting from the exchange-rate changes vis-a-vis the United States dollar. Contributions rose in 1986 by $20 million, representing a 5 percent real growth in 1986, as donors contributed $192 million, including $28 million from the Bank.
The CGIAR continues to work actively in all parts of the developing world, but is especially concerned with food problems in Africa.
Four international agricultural centers are headquartered in African countries, and all CGIAR centers have important research programs on the continent. Their principal function is the provision of germplasm of the major African food crops for development and adaptation by African national research services. Several centers, working out of a new $15 million research facility in Niamey, the Sahe-
lian Centre of the International Centre for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics, have programs focused on the needs of the semiarid zone south of the Sahara. These programs provide scientists with a better understanding of the food economies and agroecological conditions of this difficult environment and develop drought-tolerant crops and water-conserving methods for cultivating them.
CGIAR centers are also involved in numerous cooperative programs with national research institutions in Africa.
One of these, a highly successful network for trypanosomiasis research involving thirteen countries, has led researchers to conclude that tolerance to this widespread cattle disease, although variable, is genetically controlled and that tolerant breeds introduced into infected regions can be extremely productive under heavy trypanosomiasis challenge. In Africa, where pastoralism is an ongoing and important way of life, and where domesticated animals provide close to a third of the gross domestic product, these findings could have a significant effect on an estimated 40 million people. Other commodity or problem-specific research networks exist or are being planned to help African nations overcome production constraints.
Food-production problems in Africa are likely to remain critical for some time, however, and are unlikely to be resolved until national research capabilities are substantially strengthened. For this reason, the CGIAR centers and a special task force appointed by the chairman of the CGIAR are working with African researchers and administrators to broaden the linkages between national research institutes and the centers. The task force plans to test three ways of organizing collaborative research programs: through an integrated approach over an entire agroecological region, on the basis of commodities across countries in a given geographical zone, and on a country-by-country basis. The objective is to gather experience on different ways of addressing African research problems and of coordinating efforts between international agricultural research and national systems.
To capitalize on these initiatives, African governments will need more trained researchers. In 1986, the CGIAR spent more than 12 percent of its resources on educational programs in sub-Saharan Africa. To date, international centers have helped to train more than 6,000 Africans in a variety of agronomic disciplines, including both degree training and postdoctoral studies. This effort and those in the future are expected to help lay the basis for indigenous research capabilities to address African research problems and to enable African
countries and international centers to work together effectively.
Special grant programs. For many years, the Bank has supported a number of activities with grant funds, most of which are targeted at strengthening development institutions and at supporting a coordinated approach in addressing worldwide agricultural-research issues.
In addition to the support given to the CGIAR, the Bank provided grant funds in fiscal 1987 to assist the activities of the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (SI.6 million), the International Union on Forestry Research Organizations and the International Council for Research in Agro-Forestry ($670,000), the International Fertilizer Development Center ($300,000), the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases ($2.8 million), and the Task Force on Child Survival ($150,000). Support was also given to the newly formed special program for African agricultural research (SPAAR) ($860,000). Additional details on SPAAR may be found on page 89.
Support for the Onchocerciasis Control Programme has been long standing. The financing of this program to rid the countries of Western Africa of onchocerciasis (riverblindness) is in its third six-year phase, and progress continues to be made on this complex and persistent health program. The Bank serves as the fiscal agent for this program, which is executed by WHO and cosponsored by the UNDP and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN. In fiscal 1987, the Bank provided $540,000 in grant funds to the program.
Technical Assistance
Within the context of the continuing deterioration of the economic climate in many of the Bank's member countries and increased concern about the costs and effectiveness of technical assistance, emphasis during calendar 1986 continued to be placed on technical assistance for institutional development and macroeconomic policy advice. And, in an effort to keep costs down, a new compensation policy was developed that effectively reduces the cost of seconded staff by as much as 10 percent. Efforts were also made to encourage the greater use of alternative, lower-cost technical-assistance delivery systems through the use of volunteers, nongovernmental organizations, retired executives, and twinning arrangements.
While showing a decrease from 1985, technical assistance financed as components of Bank loans or credits extended for other purposes continues to be by far the largest element of Bank-financed technical assistance.
During 1986, these components totaled $1,051.7 million in 183 operations, compared with $1,345.2 million in 229 operations during 1985. Sectors showing percentage increases in amounts financed during 1986 were agriculture and rural development, industrial development/finance, nonproject, power, telecommunications, transportation, urban development, and water supply and sewerage. Education, energy, and population, health, and nutrition declined.
During 1986, there were marked increases in the amounts of Bank-financed technical assistance for freestanding loans and credits and for advances under the Bank's project-preparation facility, as well as in Bank-executed projects financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
Eleven freestanding technical-assistance loans and credits were approved for a total of $136.9 million, up from a total of ten, amounting to $69.7 million in 1985. The freestanding loans and credits were approved for Argentina ($18.5 million), Botswana ($7.6 million), Brazil ($29 million), China ($20 million), the People's Republic of the Congo ($4 million), Kenya ($11.5 million and $6 million), Madagascar ($10 million and $10.3 million), the Yemen Arab Republic ($12 million), and Zambia ($8 million).
The project-preparation facility advances funds to meet gaps in project preparation and to help begin project implementation before a loan or credit becomes effective. During the year, seventy-one advances from the project-preparation facility amounted to $49.2 million, compared with forty-five advances for $26.8 million in 1985. Some 20 percent of the 1986 totals were for technical-assistance projects.
A special project-preparation facility (SPPF) was established in 1985 to help IDA-eligible member countries in sub-Saharan Africa finance preparation activities (including the preparation of proposals for financing by other donors) that could not be financed from other resources. Advances under this facility are made on a grant basis. Reimbursement is required only when a Bank-assisted project results within five years from the date an SPPF advance is approved. In 1986, nineteen advances were approved for a total of $5 million, compared with thirteen advances, totaling $3.1 million, in 1985.
The Bank continued to serve as executing agency for projects financed by the UNDP. As the UNDP began its fourth five-year programming cycle, the number of Bank-executed projects approved rose to sixty-eight, with a total allocation of $51 million, compared with
forty, with a total allocation of $15.5 million, in 1985.
By sector, the highest percentage of 1986 approvals was allocated for agriculture and rural development, together with energy (about 30 percent each), and planning (about 20 percent). At the end of 1986, the number of projects in progress stood at 150, for a total allocation of $218.5 million, compared with 117, for an allocation of $170.6 million, on December 31, 1985.
Among the larger new UNDP-financed projects for which the Bank has been designated as executing agency are investment-planning and management for water supply and sanitation in Ethiopia; public-enterprise reform studies in Zaire; planning assistance to Chad; river-development planning studies in Senegal; economic management in China, as well as an umbrella project (under which there are numerous subprojects) there; consultant support to a Bank-assisted gas project in Bangladesh; strengthening irrigation planning and design capability in Nepal; improved water-delivery systems in Egypt; and interregional and global projects for biomass gasifiers and windpump evaluation.
Reimbursable technical assistance. The Bank extends technical cooperation to Arab oil-producing, capital-surplus countries on a reimbursable basis when the annual program exceeds one staffyear of Bank input (such as in the case of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates) and on a nonreimbursable basis in response to ad hoc requests for programs requiring less than one staffyear (as in the case of Bahrain).
In fiscal 1987, about twenty-three staffyears of reimbursable technical assistance were provided by the Bank.
Saudi Arabia received about nineteen staff-years of reimbursable technical assistance, thus accounting for about 82 percent of the fiscal 1987 reimbursable program.
Kuwait received about two staffyears of reimbursable assistance in the preparation of a plan for establishing a monitoring and follow-up system and human-resources development planning. Oman received about two staff-years of assistance, including the services of field-stationed specialists, mainly for the establishment of a manpower-planning department in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor and the development of a manpower projection model. The Bank provided nonreimbursable technical assistance in the form of a housing-sector survey to Bahrain and an economic-development review to the United Arab Emirates.
IBRD Finances
During fiscal year 1987, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) moved to position itself financially to fund anticipated growth in its lending program. The IBRD chose to focus on lowering its borrowing costs and introducing new means for achieving higher returns in its liquid-assets investments.
In response to the IBRD's overall cashflow requirements, the $9.3 billion of new borrowings was the smallest in five years. Market response to these borrowings, however, gave further assurance of the IBRD's ability to continue its financial intermediation between the markets and its economically sound programs and projects for development. Reflecting, in large part, the decline of interest-rate levels, the average cost of the IBRD's multicurrency borrowings was 5.9 percent, the lowest in twenty years.
Developments in Liability Management
On the liability side, the IBRD focused on further diversification of its sources of funding. It engaged in its first public Australian dollar-denominated issues, which were placed in the Euromarket, its first public borrowing of Finnish markkaa, and resumed its borrowings of Swedish kronor after a thirteen-year absence from that market. This diversification of the IBRD's direct sources of funding was facilitated by the currency-swap program, which enabled the IBRD to borrow in these and other "vehicle" currencies directly and swap out of them and into other currencies, thereby achieving a nominal cost for the other currencies that was lower than if they had been borrowed directly.
Other innovations in the fiscal 1987 borrowing program included:
• Initiation of the first "daimyo" yen public bond issue in the domestic Japanese market. The bonds have special features, designed to increase their tradeability, that differentiate them from the traditional "samurai" issues of nonresidents in Japan. Among these features are settlement through international book-entry clearance systems that simplify the trans-
fer of securities, listing of the issue on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange so that, with secondary-market trading taking place in both the Euromarket and the Tokyo market, domestic and foreign demand for the bonds could be integrated, and provision for reopening and increasing the size of the issue by further offerings with the same maturity and coupon rate. The IBRD also reopened public issues in the Deutsche mark, Dutch guilder, and Eurodollar markets to enhance liquidity.
• The IBRD engaged in three currency swaps with AA-rated and A-rated corporations for a total of $200 million insured by a AAA-rated insurance company.
• Following substantial declines in interest-rate levels, the IBRD exercised for the first time its prepayment rights on selected issues of its securities. The prepayments were SI,296 million equivalent. Notice was also given that certain other issues would be prepaid early in fiscal 1988. In each case, the IBRD determined that exercise of the prepayment option would be financially beneficial to the Bank and, by extension, its borrowers, and that the prepayment would not be disadvantageous to the IBRD's standing in, or future access to, the market in question. These criteria will also be applied to possible other prepayments.
• The IBRD's program of continuously offered longer-term securities (COLTS) grew in fiscal 1987. The COLTS program enables the IBRD to make its securities continuously available, through its agents, to domestic investors in the United States' medium-term note market. Although cost considerations have led the IBRD to emphasize borrowings in the Eurodollar market, the IBRD has been able to offer daily its noncallable securities with maturities tailored to fit buyers' maturity and cash-flow requirements of from three to thirty years and longer. By the end of fiscal 1987, outstanding COLTS borrowings totaled $521 million from ninety-one transactions ranging from the minimum of $25,000 to $49 million and averaging $5.7 million, with an average maturity at issuance of fourteen years and a substantial concentration in thirty-year maturities. The pro-
gram achieved wide distribution among different categories of investment institutions.
• During fiscal 1987, the executive board authorized an extension of the pilot program for selling participations in IBRD loans made to, or guaranteed by, certain developing member countries. The loan sales during the year totaled $331 million to thirty-four participating financial institutions. They involved loans to seventeen IBRD borrowers.
Developments in Asset Management
Major changes in the investment authority governing management of the IBRD's liquid-asset investments were approved by the IBRD's executive board. The objectives of these changes were to improve the portfolio's market liquidity, to manage better the market risk inherent in each investment decision, and to provide a broader array of arbitrage opportunities to enhance income. The changes were to allow investment in securities of any maturity—previously, investment was limited to securities with a maturity below five years and three months—and to allow investment in financial futures and options. The IBRD replaced the maximum five-years-and-three-months standard with a new control system that limits the duration of the portfolio to between three months and four years. The executive board is expected to review the investment experience under this program early in calendar year 1988.
Income, Expenditures, and Reserves
The IBRD's gross revenues reached a total of $7,689 million in fiscal 1987, up $876 million, or 13 percent, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the past decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio, after exchange translation adjustments on nondollar assets, totaled $75,792 million equivalent in forty-five currencies at the end of fiscal 1987. The average interest rate on disbursed and outstanding loans during the year was 8.38 percent, producing interest income of $5,879 million. In addition, commitment charges of 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances produced $275 million. Altogether, the income on loans was $6,154 million, for a total return on average disbursed and outstanding loans of 8.78 percent. (See Table 4-3.)
Since July 1982, IBRD loans have been made at variable rates. The lending rate on all loans made under the variable-rate system is adjusted semiannually for six-month interest-rate periods beginning from January 1-June 30 and from July 1-December 31, by adding a
spread of 0.50 percent to the IBRD's weighted average cost during the prior six months of a "pool" of borrowings representing outstanding borrowings drawn down after June 30, 1982. The variable lending-rate system is designed to shelter borrowers from excessive volatility in market interest rates and to pass on interest-rate changes uniformly to all borrowers with variable-rate loans. The variable lending rate has steadily declined from its
initial July 1, 1982, level of 11.43 percent to 7.92 percent on January 1, 1987. On July 1, 1987, the lending rate was reset at 7.76 percent. Before July 1, 1982, loans were made at fixed rates set at the time of commitment and, accordingly, the semiannual interest-rate adjustments do not apply to these older loans. At June 30, 1987, fixed-interest rates applied to $51,608 million of disbursed and outstanding loans and to $5,120 million of undisbursed loans.
At June 30, 1987, liquid assets aggregated $18,854 million net of commitments for settlements and cash collateral received on loaned securities, a decrease of $1,234 million from June 30, 1986, when cash and liquid investments were 56 percent of projected net cash requirements for the next three years. When liquidity rises above the 40-45 percent range, the IBRD adjusts its future borrowing program. Thus, in fiscal 1987, new borrowings were $9,321 million and, as a result, liquidity declined to 50 percent. The IBRD's liquidity is designed to assure flexibility in its borrowing decisions and to permit it to meet adequately its cash requirements in case borrowings are temporarily affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets.
The IBRD invests its liquid assets and actively manages these investments throughout the year. In fiscal 1987, these investments yielded a realized rate of return on average investments of 7.59 percent and generated $1,505 million of investment income.
The realized return on average investments continued to exceed the average cost of total funds available (debt plus equity). The spread was 0.86 percent, and the spread between the realized return on average investments and the average cost of total fiscal 1987 borrowings was 1.69 percent.
The IBRD's security-loan program continued to grow during the past fiscal year. The program produced $28 million of income in fiscal 1987 and a total of $129 million since its inception in January 1982. Legal agreements covering these transactions with a select group of primary dealers further ensure the safety of these security loans.
An additional $31 million of revenues was derived from other income, including $21 million in net gains from the sale of loans.
The IBRD's expenses, which include interest and issuance costs on borrowings, administrative expenses (including $57 million for the reorganization of the IBRD), provisions for loan losses, and contributions to special programs, totaled $6,576 million, up 18 percent from the previous year. Costs associated with the IBRD's borrowings—interest of $5,926 mil-
lion and bond-issuance charges and other financial expenses of $121 million—were by far the IBRD's major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled $435 million, up $50 million, after deducting $332 million for the management fee charged to IDA and $3.3 million for the service-and-support fee charged to the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
Net income for fiscal 1987 was $1,113 million, down $130 million from the previous record high, set in fiscal 1986, of $1,243 million. This continued high net income was largely a result of the IBRD's low average borrowing costs. A few member countries outside the group of heavily indebted countries included under the Baker Plan, had difficulty in maintaining their payments to the IBRD. Accordingly, the net income for the year was $76 million lower as a result of overdue payments on certain loans that were in nonaccrual status. An additional $41 million was charged against income when the IBRD made provision for losses on loans made to, or guaranteed by, one country that was more than two years overdue in loan payments. The IBRD also placed in nonaccrual status all loans made to, or guaranteed by, three other member countries whose loan payments were overdue by more than six months.
Of the $ 1,243 million in net income earned in fiscal 1986, the IBRD's board of governors allocated $280.7 million as a grant to IDA; the remaining $962.8 million was allocated to the general reserve.
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in United States dollars. In general, translation adjustments at market rates of exchange affect the IBRD's stated income and expenses, as well as its loan balances and other assets and its liabilities, including charges or credits to the general reserve. In periods when there has been substantial appreciation of nondollar currencies against the United States dollar (as in fiscal 1987), or a substantial depreciation, the translation adjustments should be taken into account in comparing one year's fiscal results with those of the previous year.
The IBRD does not trade in any currencies for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to United States-dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into United States dollars. Because of this, the general reserve, rather than net income, increases or decreases annually by the amount of adjustment resulting from currency depreciations or appreciations. In fiscal 1987, the translation of currencies into United States dollar equivalents resulted in a $425
million increase of the general reserve, compared with a $474 million increase in fiscal 1986.
Loans
As of June 30, 1987, the IBRD held $120,488 million of loans. This amount included $10,882 million of loans that had been approved but had not yet become effective and loans to the IFC of $1,222 million. Disbursed and outstanding loans, including $796 million to the IFC, totaled $75,792 million, an increase of $14,728 million since June 30, 1986. Of this increase, $5,321 million was due to net disbursements, while 59,407 million resulted from translation adjustments.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $11,383 million in fiscal 1987, $3,120 million more than the previous record, set in fiscal 1986, of $8,263 million. Since the IBRD began
operations, it has disbursed S88.076 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the IBRD's loans amounted to $5,776 million in fiscal 1987, based on the exchange rates at the time of repayments. This included $105 million to purchasers of participations in IBRD loans. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1987, were S30,892 million: $27,826 million to the IBRD and $3,066 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings
Borrowings in international capital markets provide the major portion of the funds for the IBRD's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the IBRD, which are its usable paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments. Total borrowings by the IBRD in
fiscal 1987, consisting of new medium-term and long-term borrowings plus incremental short-term discount-note and central bank-facility borrowings outstanding on June 30, 1987, amounted to the equivalent of $9,321 million, about 11 percent below the $10,500 million in borrowings in fiscal 1986. (See Table 4-4.) The fiscal 1987 total does not include rollovers of short-term United States dollar borrowings that were outstanding at the end of fiscal 1986—some S2,474 million in discount notes net of unamortized discounts and $1,474 million in the central-bank facility. Those refinancings brought the IBRD's "gross borrowings" for fiscal 1987 to $13,269 million, some $776 million under fiscal 1986 totals. The total borrowings also did not include $1,296 million equivalent of borrowings that were prepaid and refinanced.
Direct short-term, medium-term, and long-term borrowings in United States dollars contributed the largest share (33 percent) of the total borrowing program for fiscal 1987. Direct borrowings of Japanese yen (20 percent), Swiss francs (16 percent), Deutsche mark (15 percent), and Dutch guilders (6 percent), contributed 57 percent of the program. Other currencies accounted for 10 percent. After taking into account currency swaps, which changed the "effective" currency structure of the program, the effective borrowed currencies
in fiscal 1987 were United States dollars (25 percent), Swiss francs (24 percent), Japanese yen (23 percent), Deutsche mark (21 percent), Dutch guilders (7 percent), and other currencies (less than 1 percent).
Swap Transactions
Thirty-three currency-swap transactions were executed in fiscal 1987, aggregating $1,635 million.
Of the swaps completed during fiscal 1987, 48 percent were into Swiss francs, 32 percent into Deutsche mark, 15 percent into Japanese yen, and 5 percent into Dutch guilders. The currencies swapped out of vehicle currencies reflected continued diversification. United States dollars accounted for 28 percent, Canadian dollars for 26 percent, European currency units for 21 percent, Australian dollars for 13 percent, and two new vehicle currencies, Finnish markkaa and Swedish kronor, for 7 percent and 5 percent, respectively. The Swedish kronor swap involved a combination of an interest-rate swap from fixed to floating-rate Swedish kronor and the Bank's first cross-currency interest-rate swap from floating-rate Swedish kronor to fixed-rate Swiss francs.
The IBRD also reversed two existing interest-rate swaps. These involved agreements with the original swap counterparties to reverse two interest-rate swap agreements hav-
ing a principal amount of $150 million, thereby effectively converting floating-rate obligations back to fixed-rate liabilities. This was consistent with the IBRD's implementation of its medium-term and long-term borrowing program entirely with fixed-rate borrowings.
Sources of Funds
The IBRD sells its securities through direct placement with official sources (governments, government institutions, and central banks) and in the private sector (markets where securities are offered to investors through public offerings, loans and private placements by investment-banking firms, merchant banks, commercial banks, and savings institutions). Of the fifty-six medium-term and long-term borrowing operations that the IBRD conducted during fiscal 1987, forty-five were in the private sector throughout the world and accounted for $7,190 million, or 77 percent, of the total amount of funds borrowed. The other medium-term and long-term issues, totaling $2,121 million, or 17 percent of the funds raised, were placed with official sources.
Short-term borrowings outstanding on June 30, 1987, net of unamortized discounts, totaled $4,498 million: $2,698 million in market borrowings of discount notes (an increase of $224 million over the amount outstanding at the end of fiscal 1986) and SI.800 million in official borrowings through the central-bank facility (an increase of $326 million over the amount outstanding at the end of fiscal 1986). These increases accounted for 6 percent of the fiscal year's total borrowing program.
The IBRD's securities have been placed with investors in more than 100 countries throughout most of the world. This diversity allows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions', the same diversity lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $9,321 million of total IBRD borrowings in fiscal 1987, including $542 million of incremental short-term obligations at face value outstanding on June 30, 1987, consisted of the currencies listed in Table 4-5. Of these borrowings, $1,617 million represented refinancing of maturing medium-term and long-term borrowings. In addition, there was $3,974 million of short-term borrowings at face value outstanding at June 30, 1987, that had been outstanding at the end of fiscal 1986 and refinanced during fiscal 1987.
A total of $7,631 million equivalent of debt, not including short-term notes, matured during the year. A total of $1,369 million of additional debt, not including short-term notes, was retired: $73 million by means of sinking-fund and
purchase-fund operations, and $1,296 million by exercise of prepayment rights.
The principal amount of the IBRD's outstanding obligations increased $9,625 million to $79,420 million as of June 30. 1987. These obligations were denominated in twenty-two different currencies and currency units. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings, by currency, at June 30, 1987, is set forth in Appendix E of the IBRD Financial Statements.
Cost of Borrowings
The cost, after currency swaps and interest-rate swaps, of total borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal year, weighted by amount, was 5.90 percent. This cost compares with 6.93 percent for fiscal 1986 and was the IBRD's lowest cost of new borrowings in the past twenty years. The equivalent figure for the $13,269 million of gross borrowings (including the refinancing of $3,948 million of short-term debt net of unamortized discounts) was 6.04 percent. The average cost of total funds to the IBRD (debt plus equity, that is, paid-in capital, reserves, and retained earnings) was 6.73 percent, compared with 7.15 percent for the prior year. The average cost, after swaps, of total borrowings in fiscal 1987 is categorized as follows: fixed-rate, medium-term and long-term borrowings of $8,779 million cost 5.87 percent and incremental short-term borrowings of $542 million cost 6.48 percent. In addition, refinancing of short-term borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 1986 cost 6.35 percent.
The use in recent years of interest-sensitive instruments (variable-rate and short-term borrowings) has allowed the IBRD to take advantage of lower interest rates at the short end of the yield curve in United States dollars and Canadian dollars. The low costs were particularly evident in the discount-note program. In fiscal 1987, the IBRD increased its short-term
borrowings by $542 million. It engaged in no new variable-rate borrowings. Instead, it focused on opportunities for medium-term and long-term borrowings at lower fixed rates.
The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings was 7.73 percent, compared with 8.25 percent for fiscal 1986. The cost, after swaps, of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past six fiscal years is summarized in Table 4-6.
Capitalization
The capital stock of the IBRD and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars).
Since the effectiveness on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists. In recent years, the IBRD has examined the implication of this change on the valuation of its capital stock and the effect it would have on its financial statements.
In fiscal 1987, the executive directors of the IBRD decided that the words, "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1. 1944," meant the SDR as it was valued in terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1. 1974 ($1.20635 for one SDR).
That decision went into effect on June 30, 1987.7
On January 4, 1980, the IBRD's board of governors adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by 331,500 shares: This provided for a paid-in portion of 7.5 percent, compared with the 10
percent paid-in portion of previously existing capital stock. The governors also adopted a resolution that increased the authorized capital stock by an additional 33,500 shares and that authorized each member to subscribe to 250 shares of this additional capital, none of which had to be paid in. Increases to subscribed capital during the fiscal year under these resolutions amounted to $2,420 million as of June 30, 1987. In August 1984, there was a selective capital increase in the IBRD's authorized capital of 70,000 shares. Selective increases, totaling 69,074 shares, were authorized for subscription by certain members.
Capital subscribed during fiscal 1987 is shown in Table 4-7.
On June 30, 1987, the authorized capital stock of the IBRD stood at $94,879 million; its subscribed capital was $85,231 million.
7 For details, see page 13.
Section Five
1987 Regional Perspectives
Eastern and Southern A
In fiscal 1987, some welcome developments took place in the Eastern and Southern Africa region: The end of the severe drought in most countries was followed by such a surge in food production that acute food shortages have become the exception rather than the rule, and the drop in oil prices, coupled with sharp price increases in 1986 for a number of export crops, resulted in an overall improvement in the external terms of trade for the area. It was encouraging that the region as a whole regis-
tered an increase, albeit small, in per capita real income.
The respite provided by these positive developments may be short lived, however: The debt problem still looms over Eastern and Southern Africa, and the continent has a long way to go yet on the path to economic recovery and sustained growth.
A Review of General Developments
Rising political tensions directly affected the economies of many countries in the region. Internal military conflicts persisted in Mozambique, Sudan, and Uganda, affecting, particularly, agricultural and industrial production and the transport network.
The deterioration of political and economic conditions in South Africa and the escalation of pressures, including economic ones, on the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC) states (consisting of Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) can only hurt their economies, most of which are highly dependent on South Africa for trade, transport, and manufactured goods. South Africa is the major supplier of food, oil, spare parts, motor vehicles, machinery, and other manufactured goods; it owns or controls up to 40 percent of manufacturing activities in neighboring states and employs an estimated 1 million migrants from the SADCC countries; and because some 85 percent of the foreign trade of these nine countries goes through South Africa, any disruption in transport routes would seriously damage their economies, with adverse implications, too, for non-SADCC-state countries (for example, Zaire).
Of all the countries in the region, Mozambique faces the most severe problems. Attacks by armed bands have created serious security problems, particularly in the potentially most productive central provinces of Sofala, Tete, and Zambezia. The government estimates that 3.5 million people (25 percent of the total) are affected by war and require food and medical aid to avert the threat of mass starvation.
Domestic production went up in most Eastern and Southern African countries in 1986—
by nearly 4 percent in real terms for the region as a whole. Production increases were between 4 percent and 5 percent in Burundi, Kenya, Mauritius, and Somalia and well above 5 percent in Rwanda and, from a drought-depressed base, Ethiopia; production stagnated in Madagascar, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe, however, and fell in Mozambique. Although Burundi, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Rwanda, and Uganda enjoyed increases in real per capita incomes of more than 2 percent, high population growth rates caused a number of countries to continue to register declines.
After a period of slow growth during 1979-83, the economy of Mauritius has rebounded strongly in the past several years; remarkable real growth in the output of enterprises in the export-processing zones (averaging 30 percent a year since 1984) and a bumper sugar crop in 1986 led to extraordinary growth in both gross domestic product (GDP) and exports. In Seychelles, economic activity regained strength as tourist arrivals reached 70,000, slightly below the 1979 record of 79,000, but up sharply from the 47,000 arrivals recorded just four years ago.  The  Kenyan economy also showed
marked improvement, as good weather, higher coffee prices, and lower oil prices helped improve the external terms of trade by over 20 percent.
Generally favorable rainfalls for the second consecutive year and more enlightened government policies contributed to an increase in agricultural production in all countries except in Lesotho (where there was a 5 percent decline, mainly as a result of drought) and Mozambique. Cereal production was 15 percent to 20 percent below normal in Botswana and Lesotho, and far more than 20 percent below-normal in Mozambique; these countries need food aid to cope with their food-supply shortage.
It is ironic, however, that the eagerly-awaited end of the drought should itself have created problems for food-surplus countries: Uganda has lost its potential export market, and several countries are now requesting donor support for the disposal of exportable food surpluses and the movement to deficit areas of exceptionally high localized surpluses, which, in some cases, are straining the financial and storage capacities of national grain-marketing
A family-planning session at Machakos hospital (Kenya). At the Safe Motherhood Conference, held in Nairobi in February 1987 and cosponsored by the Bank, the World Health Organization, and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, World Bank President Barber B. Conable announced that, over the next several years, lending for population, health, and nutrition would be doubled.
agencies.1 Zimbabwe, in particular, has an exportable surplus of over 1 million tons. The good harvests have been accompanied by the threat of locusts; fortunately, the emergency locust campaign coordinated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) has prevented widespread crop losses.
The region's external terms of trade improved by 5 percent in 1986. The price index in current United States dollar terms for seven major exports (constituting over half the total value of exports) rose by 8 percent, while that for imports rose by 4 percent; while the price index for petroleum and petroleum products fell by nearly half, that for manufactures (which have a much larger weight in the total value of imports) rose by 20 percent. Changes in the terms of trade for individual countries, however, depended heavily on the composition of their exports.
Coffee-producing countries, such as Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, enjoyed substantial improvements in their terms of trade following a windfall increase in the early part of 1986 in the world price of coffee, which resulted in an
increase of 34 percent in 1986 over 1985. In contrast, Sudan suffered a decline of 6 percent in its terms of trade, as cotton prices fell by 20 percent, and because copper and cobalt prices dropped by 3 percent and 40 percent, respectively, only slight improvements in the terms of trade took place in Zaire and Zambia. The total value of exports (in current United States dollar terms) from the region rose by 4 percent, with especially large increases in Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, and Tanzania. Large declines, however, were registered in Mozambique, Sudan, and Zambia. The outlook for the region's terms of trade is not good, and a fall of 5 percent is projected for 1987. Contributing to this outlook is the return to a more normal pattern in the price of coffee, which dropped by nearly half between early 1986 and early 1987.
1 The United States, for example, is involved in triangular transactions in which Malawi and Zimbabwe are the sources of supply and Mozambique is the recipient. It also makes local purchases in Sudan for transfer to deficit areas.
Further progress toward stabilization continues to be needed in a number of countries. In Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe, government borrowing from domestic banks went up in 1986 over 1985 as a proportion of GDP. Government overall budget deficits were 10 percent or more of GDP in Malawi, Mozambique, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In Ethiopia, the consumer-price level fell by 10 percent with an increase in food supplies after a rise of 19 percent in 1985 caused primarily by food shortages after the drought. In other countries, inflation rates ranged from 6 percent in Kenya; around 15 percent in Madagascar, Malawi, and Zimbabwe; 30 percent to 50 percent in Mozambique, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia; to nearly 180 percent in Uganda. Marked deteriorations occurred in Madagascar, Uganda, and Zambia compared with 1985.
The balance-of-payments' current-account deficit grew in five of the twelve largest countries; as percentages of GDP, it went up in Malawi, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia. Current-account deficits of 10 percent or more of GDP were experienced in Madagascar, Mozambique, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia. In contrast, Zimbabwe's current account was roughly in balance, and Mauritius had a current-account surplus of 2.5 percent of GDP.
Progress on Structural Adjustment
Notable policy reforms, directed at structural adjustment, were initiated in Burundi, Mozambique, and Tanzania, while creditable progress toward structural adjustment was made in a number of countries in the region. In Burundi, the government, supported by IDA and Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa structural-adjustment credits and a standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), implemented its reforms in July 1986. The reform program includes the adoption of a flexible exchange rate and a restructuring of the trade regime. The Burundi franc was first devalued 15 percent in terms of the special drawing right (SDR) in July 1986, and, through regular monthly adjustments, it had depreciated 26 percent against the SDR by the end of April 1987. Measures to liberalize imports included the replacement of quantitative restrictions by import tariffs. Import licenses are now granted automatically, except for a limited number of goods. A major reform of the import tariff structure has also been implemented, and price controls have been almost completely eliminated. Finally, the preparation of a three-year, public-expenditure program was initiated.
In Mozambique, the government formulated an economic-rehabilitation program, which is being discussed with the Bank and the IMF, in an effort to develop a medium-term framework for improvements in economic performance. It will focus on exchange-rate and external-trade policies, pricing and marketing policies, the budget, and credit. Steps already taken include an 80 percent devaluation of the local currency; increases in utility charges, petroleum-product prices, transport tariffs, and beer and cigarette prices; and several tax and expenditure measures designed to reduce the government's deficit.
In Tanzania, the government introduced a new economic-recovery program aimed at remedying the shortcomings of earlier policies, including its structural-adjustment program, which, although in operation since 1982, failed to generate any major recovery in the Tanza-nian economy. The new program will follow an active exchange-rate policy aimed at eliminating, by mid 1988, the overvaluation of the Tanzanian shilling. A major devaluation in mid 1986 was followed by further weekly adjustments that resulted in a 73 percent devaluation by May 1987. The process of price decontrol has been continued. Producer and utility prices were raised substantially during 1986, and further reforms in agricultural marketing were introduced. Food-grain marketing has been almost completely liberalized, and the marketing of export crops is also becoming much more flexible, with cooperatives and large producers being allowed to export directly rather than through the marketing boards. Tanzania's reform program is being supported by an IMF standby arrangement and an IDA multisector rehabilitation credit.
Madagascar depreciated its currency by 20 percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies in August 1986 and by 5 percent in February 1987. In Malawi, the government devalued the kwacha by 10 percent in August 1986 and by 20 percent in early 1987. It has also begun to implement a comprehensive reform of the agricultural-marketing system, which includes a rationalization of the role of the state marketing agency and the encouragement of increased private-sector participation in marketing. The process of price decontrol has now been completed, and efforts are being made to improve the management of parastatal enterprises. Somalia is moving toward a more efficient mechanism for foreign-exchange allocations to meet the demands of the economy, especially in the private sector. A successful bimonthly foreign-exchange auction was introduced in September 1986, providing a dependable source of foreign exchange. Almost all
nongovernmental foreign-exchange transactions are now carried out at the free-market rate. Furthermore, Somalia has made substantial progress towards a more liberal economic system. The incentive system has been rationalized through trade liberalization and the dismantling of agricultural-pricing and marketing controls.
The structural-adjustment process was interrupted in a few countries in 1986. In Zaire, the perception that the stabilization program, which had been in place since 1983, had not been effective led the central committee of the governing party to announce, in October 1986, a number of measures that portended a reversal of earlier major reforms, including its commitment to a market-determined exchange rate and to the liberalization of prices and interest rates. Following discussions with the Bank and the IMF, the government reaffirmed its commitment to the process of economic reform. Since then, it has negotiated a new standby arrangement with the IMF and completed preparation of a structural-adjustment program with the Bank. Zaire's currency was then devalued by 15 percent to a rate close to that estimated for the parallel market. The government has since continued weekly adjustments of the exchange rate to reflect market conditions.
In Zambia, where the government, for the past two years, had undertaken major reforms of economic policies and incentives, the program ran into problems of implementation and severe foreign-exchange shortages. Zambia's mineral exports in 1986 fell one third below expected levels, as copper and cobalt prices dropped and production declined. In early December, public disaffection with price increases led the government to rescind the increase for maize meal; a month later, it halted the foreign-exchange and treasury-bill auctions that had been in operation since October 1985. Although Zambia reached an agreement with the IMF in March 1987 on a two-tier foreign-exchange system, one tier of which restored the auction for general imports, it decided in May to abandon the recovery program drawn up with the support of the IMF. The government announced a price freeze, the reimposition of price controls, and the abolition of the foreign-currency auction, fixing the rate of eight kwacha to the United States dollar, up from twenty-one at the final auction. Import licenses would be limited to essential consumer products, raw materials, and machinery. Debt-service payments would be limited to 10 percent of export earnings, after first deducting the foreign exchange required to service the state-owned copper mines
and the national airline, as well as fuel and fertilizer imports. In both Zambia and Zaire, where the debt burden is so great and imports and per capita GDP have long been in decline, the countries face enormous difficulties in sustaining progress towards adjustment with growth.
Longer-Term Issues
Most countries in the region have experienced an erosion in their standard of living since the early 1970s; despite some improvement in the past two years, real GDP per capita is lower now than it was a decade ago for most. One positive direction in which a number of African governments are moving—one that is crucial in the long run for the alleviation of poverty—is in the control of population growth. Without this, whatever progress is made through structural adjustment in terms of income growth could be annihilated.
It is also critical for countries to make the most of their human resources by developing a more educated labor force and by maximizing the contribution of women in the development process.
Women in Africa have been underrepresent-ed in the design of development projects and have had difficulty gaining access to productive resources, information and technology, and higher education. This problem is now being recognized, and more emphasis will be given to the participation of women in the productive process (see box on page 80).
The educational level in Africa is still far below that of other regions of the world. The recent pressures to cope with economic reforms and the severe competition among many-potential investments for scarce resources have hindered the ability of many governments to raise the educational level of their citizens; in some countries, Somalia, for example, primary-school enrollment rates have actually fallen in recent years.
The shortage of skilled manpower to carry out administrative, technical, and managerial tasks is a serious impediment to development in many countries in the region. The shortage is particularly critical now, as governments more than ever require qualified personnel, both in the civil service and in the parastatals, to carry out their reform programs. Because erosions in real wages of government employees have tended to be more severe for those in skilled occupations, governments have lost skilled personnel to the domestic private sector or, as in the case of Sudan and Somalia, to the high-income oil-exporting countries of the Middle East, where earning opportunities are far superior. It is critical for countries to build
Women in Development: the Kenyan Experience
Since the end of the United Nations Decade for Women in 1985, the World Bank has intensified efforts to integrate its "women in development" activities into Bank operations. Years of studies and training had led the Bank to the point where it could, in several fields, show what could be done to include women in development programs and demonstrate that such inclusion could contribute to economic performance, the easing of poverty, and other development objectives.
During fiscal 1986, a plan of action was undertaken for Kenya—to serve as a model in other countries—that emphasizes the gains in economic productivity that can be attained through the more effective involvement of women and focuses on practical ways to involve women in normal operations in agriculture, education, family planning, health, and nutrition.
Information on the situation of women was collected, and promising ideas identified for incorporation into Bank-assisted projects. During the past year, the Bank helped prepare the second phase of a national agricultural-extension project in Kenya. The aim is to bring the training-and-visit (T&V) extension system more effectively to women smallholders.
Agricultural extension has helped change the face of agriculture in much of the developing world. But cultural tradition, formalities of ownership, and relative poverty have often kept women farmers from using extension services effectively. Women actually do much of the farming in Africa, but lack of access to extension services has resulted in substantial productivity forgone.
By bringing the T&V extension system more effectively to women smallholders in Kenya, agricultural productivity is expected to go up substantially. In some areas of the country, extension agents are asking women, who do much of the smallholder farming, to serve as "contact" farmers. In fact, the Bank now estimates that most contact farmers in Kenya are women. Some extension workers have begun to use women's groups as contact farmers, an innovation with considerable promise, since the agent can reach as many as fifteen to twenty people simultaneously. This approach is being expanded in the design of the second phase of the national extension project, and the Bank is working with the Kenyan government in meetings with extension agents and smallholders to see what messages and approaches can work most effectively to improve productivity of women smallholder farmers.
In education, the Bank is looking at patterns of access and use of different kinds and levels of schools in Kenya to identify reasons for low attendence by girls. Various issues are being considered: for example, whether to increase secondary-level facilities for girls so that the qualified among them will no longer have to be turned away, and whether efforts should be made to help improve the supply of textbooks and equipment to ensure greater distribution throughout the country. Girls' particular needs will be looked at, both in terms of access and curriculum—in practical mathematics, farming skills, family life, and health education, for instance.
"Women in development" initiatives are also being planned in other countries in Africa: Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Zaire, and Zambia.
up their stock of trained manpower and to find ways to attract and retain them in the public sector.
The fragility of reform efforts of countries in the region can be linked to their weak institutional structures. In this connection, it is noteworthy that a number of countries have associated the Bank in their efforts to improve their capacity in macroeconomic management, in parallel with their efforts at structural adjustment. The focus is on improving the mechanisms for the selection and monitoring of public investments, rationalization of budget systems, and the management and monitoring of the public-enterprise sector, with a view to making it leaner and more efficient. Examples of such countries include Burundi, Madagascar, Rwanda, Sudan, and Zaire.
The provision of social services in the countries of the region has also been badly affected by security problems. Yet, as countries attempt to overcome their short-term and medi-
um-term structural problems, an urgent need exists to expand the provision of services to mitigate the effects of adjustment on the poor and to build up the citizenry's productive capacity for the future.
Protection of the environment is another long-term goal that tends to get overlooked in the face of urgent short-run needs. Yet, many countries need to tackle the problems of environmental degradation now. Lesotho, for example, badly needs better land management, because the overstocking of livestock and inadequate land-husbandry practices have led to severe soil erosion and to the degradation of land and vegetative cover. Population pressure has contributed to deforestation and soil erosion in Comoros and Rwanda. In Somalia, only 13 percent of the land is suitable for cultivation, with the availability of water being a binding constraint. Careful management of land and water is essential for its future development. In Sudan, the spread of inappropriate
land-clearing practices, soil-preparation technologies, and farming systems, which have accompanied the growth of mechanized agriculture in the semiarid regions, has led to considerable environmental damage. The challenge is to find the right technology and effective enforcement mechanism to deal with these problems. During the past year, local experts and those from the Bank worked to develop a new rainfed-subsector strategy for Sudan; the Bank is currently preparing a land-conservation and management project in Lesotho; in Zimbabwe, the government carried out a review of land management; the Bank is also supportive of what the government is doing in Botswana, and a Bank-assisted land-management and livestock project has been designed to strengthen the land-management process so that sustained use of the rangelands by cattle and wildlife will be enhanced.
Issues for International Cooperation
Although many countries in the region have recently taken courageous steps to correct inappropriate structural features in their economies, the ability to sustain the reform programs depends both on the capacity of governments to make them politically palatable and on the commitment of the donor community to see them through this difficult period.
The implementation of reform programs has caused serious domestic problems in some countries, such as in Zaire and Zambia, as already noted. In both cases, the adequacy of support from external donors has been called into question. In Zaire, the perception by the government that the donors had failed to provide sufficient support for the reform process
created strong political pressures on it to slow down economic liberalization. The lack of foreign exchange, partly due to lower-than-antic-ipated inflows from donors, contributed to the suspension of the auction system in Zambia.
Notwithstanding some measure of economic recovery, the debt problem continues to intensify for countries in the region. In the majority of countries, total debt now exceeds half of GDP; in Zambia, it is more than four times GDP. In Comoros, the external-debt situation worsened, and the country accumulated sizable arrears; by 1986, debt-service payments had increased to over 20 percent of export earnings. Sizable arrears of over $50 million have been accumulated by Madagascar, Somalia, Uganda, and Zaire; for Mozambique, Sudan, Tanzania, and Zambia, the arrears are now above $500 million. Actual debt-service payments (after arrears and reschedulings) in 1985 ranged from under 20 percent of export earnings for Tanzania and Zambia to over 40 percent for Madagascar, Somalia, and Uganda. However, their estimated scheduled debt-service ratios (service payments due before rescheduling or arrears as a percentage of export earnings) for 1986 are much higher and go up to 50 percent to 60 percent for Malawi, Tanzania, and Zaire; 60 percent to 100 percent for Madagascar, Uganda, and Zambia; and over 100 percent for Mozambique, Somalia, and Sudan. In Zimbabwe, where debt is currently being serviced fully, a debt crunch will be faced over the next two years, after which a considerably lower debt-service ratio will emerge.
Net disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) increased by 19 percent in 1985 over 1984, after declines in 1983 and 1984.
Table 5-3. Net Transfers to Eastern and Southern Africa
(millions of US dollars)
Sudan Zaire Zambia Kenya Total region
Item 1987    1983-87     1987     1983-87    1987    1983-87     1987     1983-87     1987 1983-87
IBRD and IDA										
commitments	47.0	358.5	124.0	602.4	43.4	298.3	49.0	525.0	763.6	4,682.1
Gross										
disbursements	63.2	314.7	89.7	304.6	81.4	286.6	100.7	719.8	856.1	3,842.9
Repayments	6.3	32.0	14.4	47.2	25.8	109.2	51.0	156.7	184.4	657.9
Net										
disbursements	56.9	282.7	75.3	257.4	55.6	177.4	49.7	563.1	671.7	3,185.0
Interest and										
charges	8.7	33.1	7.9	36.7	34.2	134.0	85.0	280.3	262.9	946.2
Net transfer	48.2	249.6	67.4	220.7	21.4	43.4	(35.3)	282.8	408.8	1,938.8
Note: Transactions relating to Part II countries guaranteed by Part I countries are included. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are excluded. The countries shown in the table are current borrowers with the greatest amount of debt, outstanding and disbursed, at end 1985, listed in descending order. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
However, the total inflow of foreign resources to the region continues to fall. In 1985, for the fifth year in succession, the net flow of medium-term and long-term loans (disbursement minus amortization), including grants and write-offs, declined; it reached a level of only 57 percent of the peak volume achieved in 1980. Consequently, the net resource transfer (disbursement minus debt service) to the region after debt servicing in 1985 was only 43 percent of the 1980 level.
Some progress was made in 1986 with debt rescheduling, for example, for Madagascar, Tanzania, and Zambia. After Madagascar rescheduled its external debt with the Paris Club, which agreed to a repayment period of ten years, with five years of grace, its debt-service ratio was reduced from 94 percent to a still extraordinarily high and unsustainable 57 percent. In Zaire, however, reschedulings actually increased the medium-term burden of debt, although the short-term debt-service ratio was reduced. Zambia's terms of rescheduling through the Paris Club also eased, but conventional debt-relief measures are inadequate to the enormity of its problems, as they are in a number of countries, such as Madagascar, Somalia, Sudan, and Zaire. Even with maximum debt relief similar to that agreed to in the past, Zambia will owe, each year, for the next two years, more than $350 million of debt
service (excluding arrears) that cannot be rescheduled. The problem, in each case, is that debt relief has merely acknowledged a country's inability to service its debts; it has failed to take matters a step further by giving consideration to more imaginative measures to ease the burden. In Sudan, because Arab funds have found an arrangement by which arrears can be managed (by financing the local-cost components of sugar and cotton projects, thereby creating a dollar availability for settling arrears), loan disbursements, including those of cofinancers, have resumed. However, the annual scheduled debt-service payments of Sudan's remaining debts (excluding arrears) are still well over 100 percent of exports.
Eastern and Southern African countries face formidable problems as they strive for structural adjustment. In addition, some countries will require substantial incremental resources to rehabilitate alternative transport routes and reduce their economic dependence on South Africa. In the meantime, longer-term problems will test governments' administrative capacities and compete for scarce financial resources. Whether or not the countries of the region succeed is contingent not only on their own resolve, but also on the willingness of the donor and creditor communities to be more supportive of their efforts.
Western Africa
The past fiscal year witnessed considerable further progress in pursuing far-reaching policy reforms to deal with the severe economic difficulties of the Western Africa region, though the extent of adjustment and the speed of economic recovery varied among countries. The most notable case of a bold overhaul of economic policies was the structural-adjustment program adopted by Nigeria. The comprehensive adjustment programs adopted ear-
lier by Cote dTvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Niger, Senegal, and Togo remained broadly on track. Most other countries, in varying degrees, also intensified their efforts to cope with problems of stabilization and structural imbalances, including the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, and Sao Tome and Principe.
However, despite favorable weather for the second successive year, the environment in which the adjustment efforts of the countries of Western Africa are taking place deteriorated markedly, continuing to hamper a speedy economic recovery.
The further deterioration in the international terms of trade was the principal culprit. In 1986, primary commodity prices in real terms fell below their level of 1932, the previous low in this century. While the terms of trade of the developing countries as a group declined by 4.4 percent in 1986, those for Western Africa plummeted by 37.2 percent. This drop reflects the dominance of primary commodities, particularly oil from Nigeria (whose terms of trade fell by over 50 percent), in the exports of Western Africa. However, even excluding Nigeria, the terms of trade of the rest of the region deteriorated by 20 percent.
Inadequate data lend a certain haziness to economic trends, but the broad picture is clear. In 1986, Nigeria's gross domestic product (GDP) is tentatively estimated to have declined by about 3 percent, but, adjusted for the terms of trade, gross national income (GNY) fell by nearly 16 percent and per capita income by 18.5 percent. In the rest of Western Africa, growth in gross domestic product (GDP), which, in 1985, had exceeded population growth, is estimated to have been almost 3 percent in 1986, or about the same rate as population growth. Thus, the combination of good weather and policy reform resulted in a modest gain in per capita GDP in 1985-86 after the decline of 1980-84. However, the deterioration in the terms of trade wiped out these hard-won gains so that, according to preliminary indications, per capita GNY of Western
Africa, excluding Nigeria, declined by nearly 5.5 percent in 1986 after having fallen by 4.5 percent in the preceding year.
Among the nonfuel primary commodities, cotton prices were particularly depressed. Their sharp drop in 1986 seriously hurt several countries, in particular, Benin, the Central African Republic, Chad, Mali, and, to a lesser extent. Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Senegal, and Togo. The effect of the decline in the price of cotton on these countries also underlined the fact that falling commodity prices affect not only the balance of payments, but also, the fiscal situation. All the affected countries experienced a marked tightening of the budget constraint. The one major export of Western Africa whose annual average price rose in 1986 was coffee, but there was a marked softening of the coffee market in the latter part of the year, with the price of coffee dropping by more than one fourth between September and December (owing to expectations of a recovery in Brazil's crop).
External debt is another critical factor in the adjustment process, as mounting debt-servicing difficulties threaten the implementation of reform programs. Although Cote dTvoire and Nigeria account for well over half the
region's debt, scheduled service payments on public debt (including obligations to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) but excluding short-term debt), though subject to revision on account of reschedulings and new borrowings, were recently estimated to exceed 30 percent of the exports of goods and nonfactor services over the two-calendar-year period 1986-87 in ten low-income countries: Benin, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. While Nigeria's present debt-servicing difficulties reflect not so much excessive indebtedness as a hump in debt-service payments, and while Cote dTvoire has a large and diversified export base with proven dynamism, the situation of several of the poorer countries, particularly the previously mentioned ten, calls for special measures to deal with their debt burden. Debt relief and rescheduling are essential elements of the financial restructuring needed in support of effective adjustment plans.
Sustaining Reform Efforts
The success and momentum of the reform efforts cannot be sustained unless additional and more coordinated concessional resources are provided by the donor community, espe-
Groundnuts being harvested in Thies. Senegal. Groundnut production in that country soared in 1986, the result mainly of favorable weather and a large increase in producer prices.
cially in light of the recent trends in, and unpromising prospects for, primary-commodity prices. Although donor round tables and consultative groups have been instrumental in improving aid coordination, the results have been mixed, and weaknesses in aid coordination and disbursements of official development assistance continue to constrain the implementation of reform programs.
Economic recovery, sustaining economic reforms, and enhancing the severely eroded import capacity of the region through some combination of debt relief and additional financing are closely interrelated. Economic recovery, in turn, is essential if the trend of worsening poverty is to be reversed.
Adjustment policies have usually involved an income transfer to large segments of the poor. The policy of raising real prices to farmers adopted in many countries (the Central African Republic, Cote dTvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Togo, for example) benefited many rural poor. Also, in a climate that necessitates tight restraint on public expenditures, many governments have attempted to protect expenditures on health and education that help the poor (as in Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Ghana, and Niger). A number of countries are also beginning to adopt schemes designed to facilitate the absorption of displaced public-sector workers in
productive employment (Senegal, Mauritania, and The Gambia, for instance).
Developments in the Major Oil Exporters
Nigeria launched a structural-adjustment program for the 1986-88 period, and its implementation is well under way. The second-tier foreign-exchange auction market opened in September 1986, resulting in a substantial depreciation of the naira. Most import bans were eliminated, the tariff schedule was liberalized, import licensing and ex factory price controls were eliminated, agricultural-marketing boards were disbanded, and monetary and fiscal policies were tightened.
The depreciation of the naira has led to a sharp increase in the naira value of petroleum revenues. Along with restraint on expenditure, this is forecast to result in a reduction in the fiscal deficit as a proportion of GDP in 1987. Nigeria's balance of payments continues to be dominated by the effects of oil prices and debt. In 1986, oil revenues were cut in half, and imports dropped by 35 percent. While oil prices are now strengthening, capital inflows are not living up to earlier expectations, allowing little scope for increasing imports in 1987.
Nigeria has been involved in a complicated debt-rescheduling exercise: The nearly finalized London Club rescheduling package is to include some $320 million in new money; the Paris Club rescheduling included insured trade
arrears, with new money flows to be determined bilaterally. The two reschedulings total some $10 billion.
Cameroon's economy continued to perform well, with growth estimated at over 7 percent in 1986. Despite the fall in oil prices, the country posted a positive current-account balance of 0.1 percent of GDP, public savings amounted to nearly 8 percent of GDP, and the overall budget remained in equilibrium. Cameroon's external-debt situation remains quite manageable: Total public and publicly guaranteed external debt amounted to 23 percent of GDP in 1985, and the country's debt-service ratio stood at about 12 percent.
There are, however, some problems on Cameroon's horizon. While oil exports have risen sharply since 1980, traditional agricultural exports have stagnated. Since oil production is expected to decline steadily from its current peak, Cameroon faces a sharp drop in export earnings over the next few years. Strong measures to increase the output of nonoil exports will be required.
Congo's economic and financial situation deteriorated dramatically in 1986. Gross domestic product fell by about 4 percent, with a drop in oil production compounding that in oil prices. Although the share of public investment in GDP was reduced from 17 percent in 1984 to 7.4 percent in 1986, heavy external borrowing continued.
The adjustment program, announced in June 1985, to stem the deteriorating financial situation was not strictly adhered to. Subsequently, however, the government intensified its stabilization efforts. An International Monetary Fund (IMF) standby arrangement was approved in July 1986, and reschedulings were successfully entertained by the Paris and London Clubs. Economic stabilization is to be complemented by a medium-term plan for structural reforms.
Developments in Other Countries
Ghana's economy is tentatively estimated to have grown by 5 percent in 1986, or at about the same rate as in 1985. Cocoa production in 1985/86 increased by 26 percent over the previous crop year in response to sharp increases in producer prices. Food production also rose in response to higher producer prices and good weather. Manufacturing output continued to benefit from more adequate supplies of raw materials and spare parts. Inflation, which had averaged 57 percent a year in 1980-85, was about 25 percent in 1986, a modest rate, particularly considering the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate during the year, suggesting that most consumer prices were already re-
flecting their scarcity value before the depreciation.
Strong export growth (20 percent) in 1986, combined with a sharp increase in disbursements of concessional assistance, allowed the value of nonoil imports to rise by over 20 percent at the same time as the current-account deficit declined. Significant progress was also made in mobilizing domestic resources, but expenditure restraint bore the brunt of adjustment, as domestic-bank financing of the public-sector deficit dropped further to only 0.5 percent of GDP.
During the past year, Ghana adopted several adjustment measures. The most important were another sharp devaluation of the cedi, followed, in September, by the establishment of a second-tier foreign-exchange auction. The official and auction rates were unified in February 1987. Imports of most producer goods were liberalized, and the producer price of cocoa was raised by 50 percent, with another substantial increase planned for 1987. Public-sector wages and salaries were raised to reverse their severe deterioration. Programs to rehabilitate the transport, energy, mining, timber, and cocoa sectors made further progress, and a major reform of the education system was initiated. The government adopted a structural-adjustment program for 1987-89 that is being supported by the Bank.
Ghana's adjustment program has had a major social effect through increases in the producer price of cocoa by raising incomes of small farmers. An important objective of the country's public-expenditures policies is to make adequate provisions for health and education. In addition, food-for-work schemes, aimed at improving water and sanitation, schools, clinics, and feeder roads, are under preparation.
Cote d'lvoire's GDP grew by over 3 percent in 1986. However, the current-account balance (including worker remittances) turned from a surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP in 1985 into a deficit of 1.6 percent in 1986, largely as a result of lower export receipts. The public-finance situation also deteriorated, as expenditures increased in the face of a sharp decline in revenues from cocoa and coffee, primarily due to a 26 percent decline in the cocoa price in CFA franc terms.
In 1986, Cote dTvoire negotiated multiyear reschedulings of its debt coming due during 1986-89 with the Paris and London Clubs. In May 1987, however, as a result of the steep decline in coffee prices, Cote dTvoire suspended debt payments due under the multiyear rescheduling agreements. The government has since resumed negotiations with its creditors.
The Bank and the IMF also provided a third structural-adjustment loan (SAL) and a standby arrangement, respectively. The SAL supports the generalization of the industrial-incentives reform, introduced in 1985, to the entire manufacturing sector and the introduction of a similar system, aimed at export diversification, for crops. Progress was also made in rationalizing the government's relationship with the public-enterprise sector.
According to preliminary estimates, Senegal's GDP grew by about 4.5 percent in 1986, compared with an average of only 0.6 percent in the previous three years. A record 1.25 million tons of grain were harvested—partly the result of favorable weather, which, combined with a hefty increase in producer prices, also reversed the downward trend in groundnut production. Significant growth in industrial output was also recorded for the first time since 1982, and inflation fell from 10.5 percent in 1985 to 6.2 percent.
The volume of Senegal's exports rose by 32 percent, but depressed international prices kept export proceeds at about the level of 1983. Nonetheless, the merchandise trade deficit was halved to CFAF70 billion in 1986 as imports fell by 16 percent. The public-finance situation also continued to improve, mainly through the containment of expenditures.
Two sets of measures undertaken under Senegal's adjustment program have had, or will have, a significant social impact. First, higher producer prices for key agricultural commodities have led to a shift of incomes from urban to rural populations. Second, to soften the effect of liberalization measures in the industrial and parapublic sectors, special funds are to be created to facilitate the absorption of displaced workers into productive economic activities through the provision of credit and training.
Niger made significant progress during the past year in improving its macroeconomic management and in adjusting to reduced prospects for uranium exports. Under favorable weather conditions, economic growth was at about 7 percent in 1985; GDP growth in 1986 is estimated at 3 percent.
Niger's adjustment program, supported by an IDA structural-adjustment credit, focuses on three areas: public-resource management, parastatal reform, and agricultural policy. A primary-education credit supports the adjustment program in the education sector. The structure of Niger's public finances, however, remains fundamentally weak, and the external-debt situation is critical. To mobilize financial support for the continuation of its reform program, the government prepared a macroeconomic financing plan for a United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) round table conference.
Guinea, during 1986, adopted several initial structural-adjustment measures necessary to steer its economy away from pervasive and often counterproductive controls and interventions. Measures included an initial thirteenfold devaluation of the currency followed by a flexible exchange-rate policy implemented through weekly auctions, removal and reform of price controls, trade liberalization, reform of the banking system, progressive withdrawal of the state from most commercial and industrial activities, and a start in reducing public-sector employment.
The results have been encouraging on a number of fronts. There are signs of a significant response from the agricultural sector to price liberalization. Public confidence in the banking sector seems to have been largely restored, success in aligning parallel and auction rates has increased, and, following the hike in the domestic price level during the early part of the year, inflationary tendencies have been kept in check. Despite these encouraging developments, there have been some problems in the implementation of certain politically sensitive measures such as civil-service and public-enterprise reforms.
The government's first three-year investment program was presented at the first meeting of the consultative group for Guinea in March 1987. In support of the adjustment process, the Bank began preparation of projects aimed at improving support services for farmers, at rehabilitation of infrastructure, and at the development of the livestock sector.
Togo continued to make progress with its structural-adjustment program: Public-investment programming was further streamlined, several public enterprises fully privatized, producer prices of export crops significantly increased, and food-crop exports liberalized. As a result of the combined effect of adjustment policies and favorable weather, GDP increased by 3.5 percent over the two calendar years 1986-87. However, the fiscal and current-account balance-of-payments deficits widened somewhat. Other countries with adjustment measures of varying intensity included:
• Chad, where, despite significant efforts to rehabilitate the economy, the performance of the economy in 1986 was mixed. The effects of a second consecutive excellent cereal harvest were offset by the slump in cotton prices, and GDP is estimated to have increased by only 1.5 percent. Despite reductions in expenditures, the budget deficit increased from 1.3 percent to 2.3 percent of GDP, as fiscal revenues from cotton fell. The cotton slump also contributed
to a deterioration of the balance of trade. The Bank's assistance to Chad focused on cotton through an emergency program for the rehabilitation of COTONTCHAD, the parastatal enterprise responsible for processing and marketing the crop.
• The Central African Republic began to implement a broad series of measures designed to reduce public-sector inefficiencies and enhance the private sector's potential. With 1986 results marred somewhat by slippages in the fiscal program and unfavorable developments in export markets, the government intensified its adjustment efforts. The Bank is supporting these efforts with a structural-adjustment operation.
• Mauritania's efforts to cope with structural economic disequilibria, brought about by several years of poor economic management and adverse external conditions, are being implemented vigorously. The public-investment program has been scaled down, and priority is being given to rural development. Cereals production has recovered from its depressed level in the drought years, and fishery exports are rising. The iron-ore sector, however, is facing serious problems as a result of depressed world prices. Fiscal measures, imposing strict limits on personnel expenditure and more efficient tax recovery, generated budgetary savings in 1986 for the first time in recent years. External-debt service, even after Paris Club reschedulings in 1985 and 1986, remains heavy. Restructuring most of the public enterprises, with unavoidable reduction in personnel, is under way. Alternative employment opportunities are being created by using a fund, jointly
managed with donors, from the proceeds of food-aid sales.
• Burkina Faso's GDP. after recovering in 1985 to the 1981 level with the return of good weather, is estimated to have grown modestly in 1986. However, the budgetary deficit continued to widen as revenues stagnated and public debt service grew to more than a third of budgetary revenues. So far, a comprehensive adjustment program has not been formulated.
• Mali's GDP, after declining in each of the three previous years, grew by nearly 10 percent in 1986. Despite a 27 percent decrease in the value of cotton exports, the current-account deficit declined. However, little progress was made in redressing fiscal imbalances. Debt-service payments (including obligations to the IMF) have increased sharply in recent years. The Bank is helping Mali to improve its economic management through technical assistance.
• Benin managed only a modest 2.5 percent growth rate in 1986. The balance of payments deteriorated, mainly because of weak prices for cotton and petroleum. The government continued to work towards the introduction of reforms. Reform of the public-enterprise sector is being supported by an IDA credit.
At the same time as Western African countries have to cope with the exigencies of adjustment, they have to deal with the longer-term issues that constrain their economic development: population growth, human-resource and institutional development, the environment, and agricultural research. World Bank efforts to assist with natural-resource management, as well as with agricultural re-
search and extension, are discussed in the remaining paragraphs.
Sustaining Agricultural Development
Refinements in work designed to sharpen the focus on sustaining agricultural development have included the following: a more holistic approach to natural-resource management and greater emphasis on agricultural research and extension strategies, including a clearer recognition of the importance of women in such strategies.
Natural-resource management. A unit was established in the Bank during the past year charged, among other things, with drawing the attention of Bank staff and officials of developing countries to natural-resource management issues and assisting with the development of initiatives to promote improved methods of natural-resource management. Efforts to date have centered on developing a work program with a deliberate project and policy orientation. One task of note has been the initiation of work on a regional strategy towards Western African river-basin development organizations. Another involves an assessment of the issues of natural-resource management, with particular reference to the interactions between crop and livestock production and forestry in selected Sahelian countries. A third study focuses on land-use systems in the lowland humid tropical zone of Nigeria.
Agricultural research. The Bank has financed two parallel studies of agricultural research in both regions of sub-Saharan Africa. The exercise aims to provide a basis for formulating agricultural-research strategies for the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Its results are being discussed with national research planners in a series of workshops, as well as
with other international organizations such as the Economic Commission for Africa, the Organization of African Unity, and the UNDP. A paper on a pan-African strategy was prepared for discussion with donors at a meeting under the aegis of the special program for African agricultural research (SPAAR).2 The initiative is aimed at mobilizing a concerted effort to strengthen national research capability, foster regional cooperation on research, accelerate the development of human resources, strengthen the linkages between research and extension systems, and improve land and water use. The study and reactions to it will form the basis for articulating a Bank lending strategy for agricultural research.
Extension services for agriculture. The Bank's extension efforts have strengthened considerably, particularly through the training and visit (T&V) approach to extension. This is reflected in the initiation or intensification of major initiatives in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Guinea, Nigeria, and Togo, as well as preliminary work with governments in Cameroon, Congo, and Ghana. The important elements of the approach include follow-up on the ground (after initial contacts) to amend or design projects, linkages with research, appropriate messages affecting farm families (especially in respect of the role of women in agricultural operations), addressing issues of training and institutions, and, perhaps most important, of sustaining the focus of national decisionmakers.
2 SPAAR is an initiative by the Bank for mobilizing an international effort to develop a special program on agricultural research aimed at improving the effectiveness of agricultural research in Africa. This program, launched in 1985, is chaired by the Bank, while the Federal Republic of Germany currently acts as vice-chair.
East Asia and Pacific
The economic prospects of countries in the East Asia and Pacific region continue to be strongly influenced by external factors, and, despite the continued slow growth of world trade, overall performance has been impressive. World openness to manufactures is critical for the region's future economic performance, given its capacity to produce competitively and the weak prospects for commodity exports, particularly rubber, palm oil, coconut oil, and tin, in which the region is dominant in world markets.
Export earnings from commodities account for more than one third of Thai export earnings, one fourth of Malaysia's, and one fifth of Indonesia's. For these countries, the stagnation or decline in the prices of nonoil commodities is a continual drag on both their balance of payments and their long-term development
prospects. Only by major efforts on the supply side have regional producers been able to improve their income terms of trade over the past decade. Most adversely affected in fiscal 1987 by low commodity prices was Malaysia, a nation also hit by low oil prices.
Low oil prices resulted in a substantial reduction (by almost $4 billion) in the export revenues of Indonesia; China's export earnings from oil fell more than $3 billion, while Malaysia lost Si.6 billion in revenue. By contrast, the Republic of Korea's import costs declined by a net $2.8 billion, while those of Thailand and the Philippines, combined, declined by $1.7 billion in almost equal proportions. All countries benefited from the reduced interest cost of debt servicing, saving a total of $2.0 billion. The net payments position of the major countries ranged from moderate-to-strong surplus on the current account (the Philippines and Korea, respectively), through rough balance (Thailand), to negative (China, Malaysia, and Indonesia).
Developments in the industrial sector will be the key to the region's future performance. The countries of East Asia, during the 1980s, have exhibited high rates of industrial growth and above-average rates of growth in manufactured exports, buoyed by an outward orientation in the group of countries that are members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and by Korea, in particular, and by relatively low domestic price distortions and competitive exchange-rate policies. The region remains vulnerable, however, to external demands for "balanced trade" and other protectionist pressures.
Hard-won Gains in the Industrial Sector
The performance in the industrial sector in East Asian economies has exceeded that of other developing regions over the past two decades. The growth of industrial value added in the six largest countries in the region (China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand) averaged 8.3 percent annually in the 1973-84 period, years that included two massive oil shocks and an ensuing world recession. In the recent five-year span beginning in
1980, the dollar value of manufactured exports grew at a rate exceeding 8 percent. The economies of East Asian countries increased their share of world manufactured exports from 1.2 percent in 1970 to 6.4 percent in 1984. By 1984, Korea accounted for 1.9 percent of world trade in manufactures, China's share had soared from 0.5 percent to 1.3 percent, and sizable gains had been registered by Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines.
The gains of the 1980s have been hard-won, inasmuch as the global environment has been much less hospitable than in the previous decade, as measured either by income growth or levels of protection in the industrialized countries. A strongly emerging trend of the 1980s has been the increasing importance of the United States as the primary market for manufactured exports. While Japan is still the major source of imported capital goods and the largest recipient of overall merchandise exports, the United States market has accommodated most of the growth in manufactured exports of the region.
The composition of manufactured exports varies by country. Still, textiles and garments account for between 25 percent and 55 percent for China, Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand; in Malaysia and the Philippines, the semiconductor and electronics industries account for between 40 percent and 60 percent of manufactured exports; and, in Indonesia, semimanufactured goods account for 50 percent. While the exports of China, Korea, and Thailand are more diversified, diversification, by product and ultimate market, is important for the region.
The greatest gains in recent years in terms of world trade in manufactures by countries in the region, reflecting the shift of the East Asian economies into more capital-intensive, high-technology areas, have been in the electronics, machinery, and transport industries. This shift in comparative advantage has been an economic priority for governments in the region, and efforts to promote foreign investment and technology transfer have played a role in hastening its development. Governments recognize that low-wage competition, as well as protection, will limit further large-scale gains in some traditional labor-intensive sectors (textiles and assembly) in the later 1980s and that smooth industrial change is important.
Commodity Outlook Not Encouraging
Despite the capacity of East Asian primary producers to increase their incomes in the face of disastrous price developments, there are clear limitations to further increases. These limitations are imposed by ultimate resource
constraints and by the limited, short-term benefits that come from continuing to expand production in bearish markets. The medium-term outlook for primary commodities is not encouraging, notwithstanding recent increases in prices in certain selective commodities of importance to the region. Recent projections for 1995 still show no improvement for rice and continued declines for maize, palm oil, and coconut oil; only minor increases in prices are projected for sugar and rubber. It is clear, therefore, that the region cannot count unduly on commodity exports as the primary force for continued growth.
Petroleum prices are obviously difficult to project. Those countries, such as Indonesia, and, to a lesser extent, Malaysia and China, which rely on petroleum exports for a sizable portion of their revenues, will continue to be exposed to major uncertainty. Even if prices recover somewhat, a return to the high levels of the 1970s, which provided windfall gains to exporters, cannot be anticipated.
A Difficult Year for Oil Exporters
As an oil exporter, Indonesia's economic performance during the past year has been dominated by the need to adjust, once again, to a sharp fall in oil prices. With about two thirds of its merchandise exports and more than half its budget revenues coming from oil and liquid natural gas (LNG), the economy was hit hard by the collapse in oil prices. It is estimated that net oil/LNG export earnings fell from about $6.0 billion in fiscal 1986 (April 1985-March 1986) to about $2.4 billion in fiscal 1987. In response, the government undertook a series of adjustment measures intended to narrow the balance-of-payments deficit by bringing national spending, especially by the public sector, more closely in line with national income. Through steps that include tighter control on government spending, the overall budget deficit is targeted to decline from an estimated 5.1 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in fiscal 1987 to 1.9 percent in fiscal 1988. This fiscal effort is being supported by greater monetary restraint: Excluding the valuation adjustments arising from the exchange-rate changes, the growth of domestic liquidity (M2) decelerated from 29.1 percent in 1985 to 15 percent in 1986.
Sole reliance on fiscal and monetary policies for adjustment would hot have been appropriate, however, given the need for structural change in the economy. Accordingly, the ru-piah was devalued by 31 percent in the fall of 1986 to preempt speculative capital outflows and to boost exports. There is evidence that Indonesia is achieving stronger nonoil export
performance despite adverse market conditions for many of its primary commodities. The past year has also witnessed an important shift in trade policy, with a move away from the cumbersome system of import-licensing restrictions. As a result of these adjustment measures, the current-account deficit was held to S4.1 billion (6.1 percent of gross national product (GNP)) in 1986.
Inflation was held below 9 percent, despite the initial effect on prices from the devaluation of the rupiah. Inevitably, the economy has paid the price from external shocks in terms of lower investment and sluggish economic performance. Growth in the nonoil economy is estimated to have slowed significantly, to 2.0 percent, in 1986. Within the nonoil economy, construction activity was basically flat, while agriculture, manufacturing, and services all recorded growth rates significantly lower than in 1985. Boosted by somewhat higher oil and LNG production, total GDP rose by an estimated 2.4 percent in 1986, a rate higher than in 1985. However, Indonesia's economic growth rate continues to be low by historical standards, and, with the added loss of purchasing power from lower oil prices, the effect on personal incomes and employment has been severe.
Malaysia's economic performance in 1986 fell far below historical trends, though marginal growth in real GDP (1 percent) was achieved following a first-ever decline (-1.0 percent) in 1985. The economy was affected by the continuing weakness in commodity prices, particularly petroleum, the collapse of the real estate boom, and declines in real private consumption and investment. The economy bottomed out in mid 1986, and the manufacturing sector rebounded, led by gains in electronics, textiles, and wood-based products. Despite a modest depreciation of the ringgit, Malaysia's inflation remained around 0.7 percent because of exceptionally weak domestic demand. Modest growth in employment was outstripped by rapid growth of the labor force, and the official unemployment rate is estimated to have risen to 8.5 percent. The public sector's budget position worsened sharply in 1986, primarily because of unexpected losses in petroleum-related revenues. Although the federal and state governments trimmed their operating expenditures, the overall deficit of the public sector almost doubled, to 16.9 percent of GNP. The 1987 budget calls for a drastic 25.9 percent cut in development expenditures; however, since revenues are also projected to decline
further in 1987 (because of a much smaller income tax base), public savings may turn negative for the first time.
The severe deterioration in Malaysia's terms of trade contributed to a drop of about 5.4 percent in merchandise exports. Imports fell by the same amount, however, as inventories were drawn down and imports of consumption goods were curtailed. As a result, the current-account deficit declined only modestly, from 2.5 percent of GNP in 1985 to around 1.8 percent in 1986. Although the debt-service ratio rose from 15.8 percent in 1985 to about 17.6 percent in 1986, Malaysia's repayment schedule remains relatively comfortable, the result of aggressive refinancing by the government in the past two years.
For the medium term, the government is faced with the difficult task of balancing two objectives: rectifying both internal and external imbalances and achieving long-term economic growth, particularly through expansion of export-oriented manufacturing. To achieve the former, the government, on the one hand, has scaled back development expenditures during the fifth five-year plan (1986-90) by 40 percent; on the other, it is promoting private investment in manufacturing by liberalizing investment regulations, improving financial and credit conditions, and encouraging direct foreign investment.
Consolidation of Gains
After a slowdown in the first half of 1986, China's economy rebounded; real national income rose by 7.8 percent, below the double-digit growth rates achieved in the previous year, when the economy became overheated and inflationary pressures emerged. Industrial output grew by over 9 percent in real terms. Output of energy and raw materials has kept pace with overall industrial growth, and bottlenecks in energy and infrastructure have eased somewhat. Agricultural growth in 1986 was 4 percent, slightly above the level achieved in 1985. A striking feature of the rural economy was the continuing structural shift toward industry and other nonagricultural activities; as a result, for the first time, rural industrial output value exceeded agricultural output value.
China's balance-of-payments position, which had deteriorated markedly in 1985, improved somewhat in 1986. Exports increased significantly, as nonoil exports grew by 30 percent, easily offsetting the reduction in the value of oil exports. Imports remained roughly constant. A 15 percent devaluation of the yuan against the United States dollar in mid 1986 (implying a more substantial devaluation against other currencies) contributed to the
A student at Beijing University. During the seven-year period, fiscal 1981-87, the Bank committed more than $600 million in support of higher education in China.
increase in exports and helped restrain imports. Overall, the current-account deficit declined from nearly $12 billion in 1985 to well under $10 billion in 1986. China's foreign-exchange reserves, which had fallen sharply in 1985, stabilized, and the composition of China's foreign debt shifted in the direction of longer-term borrowing.
Further progress was made in economic reforms intended to raise the efficiency of resource use. The financial sector has shown particular dynamism with the introduction of new channels and instruments of financing. The prices of basic industrial goods continue to be adjusted gradually, with those for a number of consumer goods freed from administrative control. A new system of labor contracts was introduced, and experiments, such as the introduction of management contracts and other devices for increasing the responsibility and accountability of state enterprise managers, have expanded. Many difficult steps remain, however, before these reforms can achieve their full benefits, and the process is expected to take a number of years.
Readying for Recovery in the Philippines
During 1986, the chief economic priority in the Philippines has been to extend and consolidate the gains of stabilization policies while
launching a program of economic recovery. Measures have been taken to provide an institutional and incentive structure conducive to long-term growth. In addition, the government has moved to reduce its intervention in the economy, establish competitive markets in key areas, and remove the bias against rural development and agriculture. The goals of stabilization have been achieved—inflation was halted (the consumer price index for 1986 was essentially flat compared with a 19.8 percent jump in 1985), and the current account swung to a surplus equal to 3 percent of GNP. By the beginning of 1987, gross foreign-exchange reserves had risen to $2.5 billion, or about four months of imports. For the last quarter of 1986, GDP growth was 3 percent, accelerating to 5.5 percent for the first quarter of 1987.
Important structural reforms initiated to facilitate sustained growth include a revised five-year plan and an associated investment program with an emphasis on rural development and employment generation, and on the efficiency of investment; a major tax reform to improve equity, rationalize protection to domestic industry, increase revenue collection, and, by 1988, to put into place a more efficient value-added tax in lieu of cascading indirect taxes; continued progress in liberalizing trade; and a rehabilitation program for government financial institutions. In addition, the government has committed itself to accelerated and more comprehensive implementation of land reform, in line with a general strategy to promote rural development and reduce poverty.
Agreements between the government and its external creditors to reschedule debt-service obligations expired at the end of 1986. Nonetheless, negotiations were successfully concluded with the Paris Club to reschedule all of the principal and 70 percent of the interest falling due over an eighteen-month period beginning in January 1987. Negotiations with private commercial bank creditors have been concluded; $10.5 billion of debt falling due over the next six years has been rescheduled at a spread of seven eighths of a point over the London interbank offered rate. The government has also instituted a program to swap external debt for equity in local industry as another mechanism to reduce the overall debt burden and stimulate investments.
Strong Export-led Growth
Aided principally by the sharp decline in oil prices and the appreciation of the yen, the Korean economy passed several milestones in 1986. Real GNP grew by 12.5 percent, fueled by a surge in the output of the manufacturing
sector of 17.4 percent and in investment of 15 percent. Merchandise exports, which rose by 28 percent, helped to produce the first-ever current-account surplus (of $4.7 billion) in Korea's modern economic history. Another first was the reduction of the external debt in absolute terms by $2.3 billion (from $46.8 billion in 1985 to $44.5 billion in 1986), as Korea became a net capital exporter. Korea is now the world's thirteenth largest trading nation and is establishing its market presence in sophisticated industrial and consumer products such as steel, ships, automobiles, and electronics.
Achieving current-account surpluses, reducing external debt, and upgrading the industrial and technological base are among Korea's principal goals for the near future. Domestic policy remains aimed at maintaining export growth through conservative macroeconomic policies to keep inflation low and the won competitive; continuing debt reduction through prepayment of expensive commercial loans and abstention from refinancing of others; continuing upgrading of the industrial base through programs in support of research and development and joint ventures with technologically advanced foreign companies; and initiating certain social programs in the areas of pensions and health insurance to continue to broaden the distribution of the benefits of Korea's rapid growth.
One of the few dark clouds on Korea's otherwise bright economic horizon is that cast by protectionism. The very success of Korea's dynamic export sector contains the seeds of trade friction in industrial countries, in general, and the United States, in particular. It remains possible that the present unease over the imbalance in trade with the newly industrializing countries of East Asia will escalate into intensified protectionism. The cost of such protectionism could be quite large for a country as dependent on trade as Korea.
Faced with a second successive year of lower gross fixed-capital formation, sluggish private consumption, and a restrained but still-in-deficit government sector, Thailand produced modest gains in growth in 1986. Growth of GDP of 3.4 percent reflected weak performance in agriculture and domestic goods, but very favorable performance in the export sector, in particular, textiles, processed food, and electronics. Prices were steady as the consumer price index rose by a scant 2 percent, the result of lower world oil prices and interest rates and slack domestic demand. The budget deficit, at 3.5 percent of GDP, was financed by borrowing in a highly liquid financial market. Interest rates fell during the year without perceptibly changing the savings rate.
The current account recorded a slight surplus for the first time in twenty years, reflecting reduced oil-import bills, sluggish demand for capital and intermediate goods, and stronger export performance of manufactures. Were it not for the major reductions in the export values of rice (—12 percent) and tin (-44 percent), merchandise export growth of 24 percent would have been still higher and the current account even more positive. The fact that Thai exports did well in a generally slack world-demand environment is encouraging for the future.
The economy of the Lao People's Democratic Republic continued to improve in 1986, benefiting from favorable weather, improved incentives, and an easing of import constraints; real GDP grew by between 5 percent and 6 percent. Nevertheless, the country continues to face a number of important constraints, such as low domestic savings and low productivity of investment, which the government hopes will be alleviated through a program of financial and economic reforms that was initiated in 1985. Although these reforms have made it possible for a faster increase in exports, imports have also risen rapidly, resulting in a widening of the current-account deficit to 10 percent of GDP in 1986.
Papua New Guinea and the Pacific Islands: A Mixed Picture
Increased investment and output in the mining sector led to a significant quickening of growth in Papua New Guinea in 1986. Agricultural output also rose, although prospects for future growth in the sector have been clouded as a result of an outbreak of coffee rust that threatens future production. As a result of continued restraint in demand management, the acceleration of growth has been achieved concurrently with improvements in the fiscal and external financial position, and inflation, at about 5 percent, has remained relatively low. Despite weak prices of gold and copper, those commodities helped aggregate-export performance. The current-account deficit, relative to GDP, is estimated to have declined to 7.5 percent. Reflecting both a tighter control of expenditures and stronger revenue mobilization, the overall budget deficit of the central government is estimated to have fallen to about 1.5 percent of GDP in 1986; it is projected to fall to below 1 percent of GDP in the current year.
Fiji's economic performance remains tied to the fortunes of sugar and tourism, although medium-term plans emphasize the diversification of agriculture and industry. Conditions improved dramatically in 1986 with a record
half million-ton sugar harvest, some strengthening of prices, and an influx of tourists. Moreover, gold production increased by about 50 percent, and several nontraditional sectors gained. As a result, GDP grew by almost 9 percent, and the current account swung into surplus. While larger foreign-exchange earnings contributed significantly, the balance of payments also benefited from the drop in oil prices. The small South Pacific islands—Kiribati, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa—experienced a difficult year. Severe cyclones caused significant damage to the Solomon Islands in early 1986 and in Vanuatu in early 1987; the economies of these two countries will take several years to regain their momentum. The steep drop in the price of coconut products adversely affected the remaining three economies. Tonga and Western Samoa narrowed their deficits on the current account because of lower fuel prices and the resilience of private remittances.
The Involvement of the Bank
Throughout the region, the Bank is attempting, through its economic and sector work and its lending instruments, to initiate or support institutional and policy reforms to enable countries to manage their increasingly complex economies better and to position them to compete effectively in world markets.
During fiscal 1987, the Bank focused on supporting reforms in China, recovery in the Philippines, adjustment in Indonesia, and economic and social investments in Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, and Thailand. The Bank also continued to cooperate with the Asian Development Bank in assisting the development efforts of the Pacific islands.
• In the Philippines, the Bank is supporting that country's recovery program through quick-disbursing loans with a focus on macro-economic and sectoral policy reform. A $300 million economic-recovery loan was approved in March 1987, and additional amounts may be mobilized through cofinancing. Furthermore, the Bank is heavily involved in aid coordination through its chairmanship of a consultative group for the Philippines, which last met in January 1987 in Paris. In formulating its assistance, the Bank has cooperated closely with the International Monetary Fund, whose current standby arrangement with the Philippines reinforces the structural reforms supported by the economic-recovery loan. A concerted approach has been developed with regard to trade liberalization, government financial institutions, the tax system, public corporations, the public-investment program, and sugar and coconut development.
Note: Transactions relating to Part II countries guaranteed by Part I countries are included. Disbursements from the IDA Special Fund are excluded. The countries shown in the table are current borrowers with the greatest amount of debt, outstanding and disbursed, at end 1985, listed in descending order. Details may not add to totals because of rounding.
• The Bank continued to support the Chinese government's efforts to extend economic reform under the seventh five-year plan (1986-90) through a broad program of assistance. Following up the Bank's analytic work on China's long-term development prospects, the focus of economic work and analytical support to the government has been on reforms in the financial system and foreign trade and a number of specific subsectors. An increasing share of lending resources is being devoted to industrial development for upgrading technology, conserving energy, and strengthening enterprise management. There is also emphasis on infrastructure projects in energy and transport, areas in which shortages of supply and growing demand for service threaten bottlenecks.
• In Indonesia, the Bank is supporting government efforts to increase efficiency in the economy, especially in public enterprises; to promote nonoil exports; to improve the financial system and increase domestic-resource mobilization, especially through tax reforms; to improve environmental management of second-stage development needs in the transmigration program, alleviate environmental and conservation problems on Java and on the Other Islands, respectively; to decentralize more responsibilities to the local level, especially for urban services, roads, and the maintenance of irrigation; and to continue to place high priority on human-resource development. Especially noteworthy during the past year was the Bank's first policy-based loan to the country, for trade-policy adjustment, which supports efforts in trade reform, and an urban sector loan, which will finance a time slice of the urban-infrastructure program.
• In Korea, the Bank's program focused, in particular, on urban development. A loan to Pusan was designed to strengthen the financial position of the city by improving investment planning and financial management. That project is illustrative of the increasing importance being placed by the Bank on building up the institutional capability for efficient resource management. In addition, a housing-sector loan will provide for a significant increase in low-income housing construction and reforms in the housing-finance system.
• Current Bank operations are helping Thailand to improve its public-resource management, enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of productive sectors, and rationalize policies and investments in infrastructure development. Emphasis will be placed on promoting agricultural diversification, increasing productivity and efficiency of existing infrastructure, and improving energy-sector planning and management.
• The Bank's assistance to Malaysia aims at bolstering the agricultural sector, enhancing the supply of skills through investments in education, and improving the efficiency of infrastructure. In addition, the Bank is involved in the reform of the development banking system and is supporting government efforts in industrial restructuring.
• In Papua New Guinea, the Bank's assistance strategy will continue to focus on agriculture, infrastructural development (especially transportation), and education. For the islands of the Pacific, the Bank will work closely with other donors in the region to support agricultural, educational, and infrastructural development.
South Asia
While the countries of South Asia continued to enjoy economic growth and, indeed, growth in real per capita income in 1986, the pace of activity slackened somewhat in comparison with 1985. The growth in gross domestic product (GDP), with a few exceptions, was mirrored in the output of the region's commodity-producing sectors, as agricultural expansion (except in India and Sri Lanka) continued; manufacturing activity (except for Bangladesh) also remained generally buoyant.
The favorable economic performance was assisted by impressive macroeconomic management in several countries, while others continued to experience difficulties in this area. Fiscal and monetary management was prudent in Bangladesh and India, thereby keeping both domestic budgetary and external-accounts deficits to manageable levels. Other countries, however, including Burma, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, continued to experience difficulties in demand management, and budgetary deficits were a persistent problem.
The external-payments picture of South Asian countries was mixed in 1986. On the one hand, the current-account deficits of most
countries improved, relative to GDP. Export receipts generally increased, reflecting both expanding volumes and higher prices, while growth in import payments was restrained by expanding food and domestic energy production. Moreover, in several countries—India, Nepal, and Pakistan—improvements in the external accounts were aided by favorable changes in the terms of trade. On the other hand, the external sector was a source of serious concern in a number of instances, such as in Bangladesh, Burma, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, where tight foreign-exchange reserve positions and high and/or rising debt-service ratios presented difficult problems of economic management. To reduce distortions adversely affecting balance of payments, a number of governments introduced policies—including pricing, foreign exchange-rate adjustments, and licensing changes—to promote exports and efficient import substitution. Countries of the South Asia region adopting such policy measures included Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
Several Persistent Development Issues
Even in an environment of continued economic expansion, some governments were confronted in 1986 with daunting problems of short-term economic management. Of equal concern, however, were a number of longer-range development issues of a persistent nature. In spite of important differences among countries, three major issues form important common themes in South Asia's recent experience: the satisfaction of basic human needs, ways to eradicate sources of economic inefficiency, and balance-of-payments problems.
In these extremely poor countries, where per capita gross national product (GNP) averages less than $300, the alleviation of poverty could not but continue to be a major source of concern. Thus, countries' medium-term plans focus on the need to accelerate economic growth and increase living standards. In addition, all governments recognize that efforts to increase overall levels of income must move hand in hand with special efforts to ameliorate
the depressed standard of living of the poorest of these populations.
Concern with human needs and the necessity for interventions in the social sectors, therefore, remain dominant themes in South Asia. High population growth rates (averaging 2.4 percent a year) have led to a determination to address issues relating to family planning. Government programs to ameliorate the difficult problem of population growth have been under way for years, but continued strong efforts will be necessary. Low rates of literacy and inadequate job skills are increasingly recognized as impediments to achieving long-range development objectives. Both come into sharper perspective as governments strive to develop manufacturing to provide the employment opportunities required by the rapidly growing labor force. Health remains a source of intense concern; by nearly all health indicators, most countries of South Asia are among the more backward.3 Low life expectancy, high infant mortality, poor health sevices, and widespread diseases are major problems.
These social problems are especially frustrating for South Asian countries, where the resources required to deal with massive needs must compete with demands for increased investment in the economic sectors. While the
challenges of alleviating poverty and the improvement of social conditions will continue to be among the major concerns of these countries for many years to come, government policymakers, since the early 1980s, have focused more sharply on several other problem areas that impede progress towards more rapid economic growth and social reform.
One area of increasing attention, common to almost all South Asian countries, is the problem of low productivity. In virtually all sectors, and in both public and private institutions, the need exists to increase economic efficiency. For understandable reasons, much of the concern of governments has centered on agriculture, the economic foundation of the region. But governments have also recognized that industry must be relied on as a source for increased employment and exports. The manufacturing sectors of South Asian countries, in common with those of many other developing countries, are generally sheltered behind fairly high tariff walls and, in many cases, quantita-
Sri Lanka has long been an exception; a number of its social indicators—health, population growth, literacy, and education—are among the most positive in the developing world.
An irrigation canal in Pakistan. Cumulative Bank lending in support of irrigation and drainage projects in South Asia totals almost S5.5 billion.
tive restrictions. Thus, manufacturing industry has developed inefficiently, and manufactured exports have had great difficulty in competing successfully in world markets. Public-sector enterprises have proliferated in the past three decades, and most of those concerned with manufacturing have been neither profitable nor dynamic. In the past five years or so, governments, undertaking to define the precise nature of the obstacles to efficient production, have introduced measures to liberalize their economies and open them to the winds of competitive performance. Thus, deregulation, reform of trade policy, and provision of incentives to exporters are becoming commonplace.
As a region, South Asia's balance-of-pay-ments problems are both less acute compared with other developing-country groups and less linked to arbitrary limits on access to foreign capital. Nevertheless, the unpromising external environment has led to growing concerns in the region. Some of the region's export commodities (rice and cotton, for example) earned record low prices in real terms in 1986, and the prospects of many of these exports are not buoyant. In all too many cases, the concentration of exports on these commodities reflects the inefficiency of the region's manufacturing firms. Actions to improve efficiency—better
export incentives, more open trade regimes, deregulation—will not only assist productivity, but can help overcome expected balance-of-payments constraints, as well. A number of governments, including those of Bangladesh and India, have combined internal and external trade reforms with a greater concern for price mechanisms, using internal pricing and foreign exchange-rate policies to encourage export-oriented activity.
Governments Act to Secure Basic Needs
Rural poverty, family planning, and low literacy levels have been the major social-policy concerns of the government of Bangladesh in the present decade. In each of these areas, the World Bank is providing support. In rural development, assistance is being provided to cooperatives, and pilot rural programs are encouraging cottage industrial activity and promoting employment for the landless. The Bank's support for the government's family-planning program represents a joint commitment to bring about a reduction of the population growth rate. A number of social-infrastructure projects aim at increasing the supply of potable water and sanitation facilities. The government's attack against inadequate educational facilities has been supported by IDA
lending for expanded primary and vocational education.
Inadequacies in the delivery of social services have also emerged as a priority concern of the government of Pakistan, which is reflected in its current five-year plan. The concern extends to education, public health, and family planning, as well as to marked discrepancies in the distribution of income among different groups of the society and between different parts of the country. These deficiencies, in part, are the result of limited resources devoted to social programs in the past and shortcomings in their management, as well as a lack of consensus on priorities between the provinces and the central government. Bank assistance has supported government programs in each of these sectors. In line with government priorities in the current five-year plan, Bank lending for education has focused on the lower, rather than the higher, end of the spectrum of educational needs. The country's overwhelming need for accelerated family planning has also led the Bank to assist in the financing of the country's family-planning program. Lending to the urban and water-supply sectors has attempted to provide the basis for improved public-health conditions and to improve the managerial abilities of local authorities.
The indicators of social development rank Nepal as one of the world's least developed nations. While primary-school enrollments have increased dramatically, those increases have had little effect on the literacy level, which remains at a low 20 percent. Moreover, educational standards in secondary schools are not yet satisfactory; many graduates are ill-equipped to advance to certificate-level and degree-level programs. Bank assistance has focused on improving the quality of primary education, as well as increasing the supply of trained technical manpower.
Focusing on Increasing Productivity and Economic Efficiency
In both fiscal 1986 and fiscal 1987, most countries in the region continued to experience favorable rates of economic growth. Some— Pakistan and India, for instance—enjoyed strong growth; others—Bangladesh, Burma, Nepal, and Sri Lanka—had declining rates of growth in fiscal 1986, although they were still positive in per capita terms. Nearly all, however, confront problems of structural adjustment that must be addressed if recent growth rates are to be sustained. Virtually all governments are now convinced they must improve the efficiency of their economies. Most medium-term development programs and economic-policy initiatives in 1985 and 1986 emphasize
not only the importance of increasing productive capacity, but also, the gains to be secured from existing capital stock through more efficient use of resources.
The government of Bangladesh has stressed the need to provide greater freedom and scope for the private sector as a means of increasing competitiveness. After completing a major privatization of state enterprises in 1982, the government, in the past two years, has focused on developing a consistent and comprehensive set of industrial policies to make the private sector more efficient. It has permitted private enterprise to enter areas previously reserved mainly for the public sector and liberalized investment and trade policies. Starting in the late 1970s, the government undertook the difficult process of strengthening the nation's financial institutions so they could better finance the development of the private sector. Efforts to raise the public sector's efficiency— particularly the management of the public-investment program, energy policies, and institutions—have also been strengthened. The goals of these policies are to expand private investment, industrial jobs, and income for a rapidly growing labor force, as well as provide an increasing source of foreign exchange through heightened competitiveness of exports.
The Bank's program lending to Bangladesh, which has been the lynchpin of its lending relationship since that country's independence, has provided a useful vehicle for grappling with the issues of efficiency and international competitiveness, as well as the performance of state industrial and agricultural enterprises. In agriculture, Bank support has helped to finance the importation of agricultural inputs, while promoting pricing and irrigation policies that improve production incentives. Support to industry has enhanced that sector's capacity to contribute to higher growth rates, increased employment, and an improved trade and payments position.
In Pakistan, also, policy initiatives by the government and Bank assistance have concentrated on the need to raise productivity through enhancing competitiveness and introducing pricing policies that provide adequate incentives to producers. In industry, in an effort to enhance efficiency and competitiveness, emphasis has continued on reducing protective barriers, limiting government intervention in private-investment decisions, and managing the foreign-exchange rate more flexibly; the general aim has been to encourage the creation of an environment in which investment decisions are made increasingly by the private sector, as well as to increase productivity and
Increasing Industrial Efficiency in India
India's economic policies since independence have been intended to achieve growth, self-sufficiency, and social justice. Within these broad goals, its industrial-development strategy has aimed at employment creation, regional dispersal of economic activity, technological self-reliance, and the prevention of concentration of economic power. The promotion of heavy industry, import substitution, and the protection and encouragement of small-scale enterprises have been central to this strategy.
The seventh five-year plan (1986-1990) announced new considerations for industrial policy and specifically recognizes the importance of productivity improvements if the nation is to reach its potential for growth and a higher standard of living. Policy changes over the past two years have increased competition in India's domestic markets, thus providing an incentive for industry to become more efficient. Far-reaching reforms in direct and indirect taxes have been carried out over the past two years with a view to accelerating growth and enhancing equity. These wide-ranging fiscal reforms are expected to strengthen both industrial efficiency and growth. With the changing nature of the economy, licensing requirements have been eased, and their administration streamlined. Many of the recent industrial-policy reforms have been aimed at encouraging more economic scales of production. For twenty-five industrial
categories, licenses are no longer required to start businesses. For almost forty product groups, firms no longer require licenses to allow them to make different goods of the same general type. There has been a relaxation of some of the more rigid aspects of large-firm regulation and protection policies for small-scale units.
The overall effect of these recent changes should lead to more efficient industrial production. Firms will have to become more responsive than in the past to market conditions, when the limited granting of licenses often effectively gave their holders a captive market.
Additional impetus to improve efficiency will come from trade-policy reforms. Recent export-promotion measures, such as those enabling exporters to obtain compensation for tariffs paid on imported inputs and to get credit at low interest rates, are intended to compensate exporters for the anti-export bias inherent in much of India's trade and industrial policy. As a result of these and other changes, manufacturers should compete abroad less hampered by cost-augmenting import duties or regulations restricting them from responding adequately to rapidly changing world market conditions. Firms able to enter foreign markets will be exposed to rivalry that should provoke continuous efficiency improvements. Competition from imports within India is limited, though, so this further source of stimulation to domestic entrepreneurs is currently weak.
exports by exposing domestic manufactures to competition and export markets.
Bank lending has also sought to increase productivity in agriculture through improvements in the efficiency of the irrigation system and through support for agricultural services. A series of sector-adjustment loans (the first in the energy sector) supports the dialogue between the Bank and Pakistan on ways to increase sectoral efficiency. In the case of energy, considerable emphasis has been placed not only on increasing domestic supplies, but, also, on increasing the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing and conservation policies, as well as better management. In the case of public enterprises, the government, encouraged by the Bank, continued to implement, in 1986, a performance-monitoring mechanism introduced in the early 1980s as a means to increase efficiency and profitability. In this, as well as in other sectors, Bank-financed technical-assistance studies, in most cases carried out with the government, have contributed significantly to clarifying issues and providing a variety of policy options to the government.
Sri Lanka introduced a wide-ranging liberalization of its economy in 1977. That program, aimed at decontroling the economy, liberalizing trade, and placing greater reliance on market forces, worked sucessfully when tea prices surged in 1983 and 1984. Economic strains, which began when tea prices began a sharp decline in 1985, reflected the difficulty of undertaking strong adjustment with reasonable economic growth under adverse external circumstances. The 1977 economic liberalization also represented a major attack on some of the most serious sources of inefficiency in the economy. Nevertheless, two major sources of inefficiency were relatively unaffected by the liberalization process: the first concerned the country's public enterprises, which continue to be a major burden on the economy. With public-sector enterprises accounting for some 30 percent of gross domestic product, the task of improving their competitiveness is not only important, but complex and difficult, as well. The second concerned the continued high degree of protection enjoyed by most existing firms, both private and public, which encouraged them to produce almost exclusively for
the domestic market. As a result, new manufactured exports have been limited primarily to garments.
The Bank has been extensively involved in the analysis of Sri Lankan industrial-policy issues since the early 1980s. It has financed several studies—a comprehensive effective-protection study and an industrial-policy study, as well as examinations of several public-sector enterprises—that have provided the groundwork for further industrial-policy reforms. The government now believes that long-term development of the industrial sector will require reduced tariff protection for the domestic industrial sector, more attractive price incentives for exporters, and increased efficiency in public-sector enterprises. The cabinet, which, in February 1987, approved a major industrial-policy statement that incorporates many of the recommendations of the joint studies, is now working out an implementation schedule.
Balance of Payments: A Formidable Challenge
The task of achieving long-term viability in the balance of payments has proved to be one of the most difficult challenges facing the countries of South Asia. In general, governments have tried to meet their import requirements for their expanding development needs through higher rates of export growth and to fill the large gaps between imports and exports of goods and services through inflows of capital on affordable terms. The current decade has seen substantial progress by most countries of the region in bringing their import requirements under better control through effective and efficient import
substitution in the areas of energy and basic foodstuffs.
Progress in expanding exports in South Asian countries has been complicated by two factors, in particular: First, their economies are agriculture based, and the world demand for agricutural exports has expanded at a relatively slow rate as the pace of growth in the industrial countries has slackened; as exporters of primary commodities, export receipts have suffered from low world prices. Sri Lanka, for instance, dependent on export revenues from tree crops, saw prices for tea, rubber, and coconut all fall in 1986, and its terms of trade declined to 102 in 1986, down from 134 in 1984 and 108 in 1985 (1981 = 100). Second, progress in increasing exports of manufactures has been hampered by protectionist policies that have reduced the ability of manufacturing industries to compete in world markets. Since the early 1980s, however, governments have devoted more attention to the need to heighten efficiency and competitiveness through a variety of means, including more competitive pricing policies, the removal of many restrictive policies that were originally introduced to protect nascent industries, and by paying greater attention to foreign exchange-rate management. Nevertheless, the development of industries whose output is directed solely to the domestic market has meant products are often not of the standard, design, or quality demanded by export markets; the export response to policy changes thus may take more time for South Asian countries.
In India, although the balance of payments generally did not present a serious problem in
fiscal 1986, export growth continued to be sluggish.4 In the seventh five-year plan (1986— 90), the government has recognized the importance to India's long-term growth of an expanding export sector and the contribution that greater efficiency and competitiveness can make to the achievement of this goal. It is recognized that policies contributing to this end include easing of licensing requirements, more flexible pricing, and trade liberalization. Since fiscal 1985, several measures have been adopted to open up the economy. These have included greater entry possibilities for the private sector and a general loosening of controls. Measures have also been adopted to liberalize trade policy by easing restrictions on imports through reductions in import duties, rationalization of tariffs, and the provision of new incentives to exports. (See, also, the box on page 101.) While export growth in fiscal 1986 proved to be disappointing, there is some evidence of improved performance of manufactured exports in fiscal 1987. Bank assistance to India, described earlier, has also provided support to balance-of-payments improvements.
A major contribution of the Bank, both directly and through the consortium of donors headed by the Bank, has taken the form of a large volume of concessional assistance provided to support India's balance of payments while adjustment to the major changes in the worsened world economic situation takes place. India continues to need a large volume of foreign assistance in absolute terms if the higher rate of investment and growth required to achieve improved standards of living is to be attained. With IDA lending to India reduced, the consequence of overall limits on IDA resources and increasing claims by other countries, IBRD lending to India has become an increasing proportion of total Bank assistance.
Burma's balance of payments in fiscal 1986 continued to suffer from the same factors that have been a source of concern for the past five years.5 The country's current-account deficit and foreign-reserve position remain difficult, notwithstanding a reduction in imports. Burma's problems are partly the result of a decline in export earnings, which reflects a high dependence on exports of rice and teak, stagnant export volumes for both, and a substantial decline in the international price of rice. In order to expand the country's export base, the government, in the four-year plan that began in fiscal 1983, has begun to shift the focus of its
agricultural strategy towards the production of other crops. Evaluation by the Bank of the government's new program may lead it, in its future lending, to support export diversification.
Reflecting poor economic management and an ineffective use of considerable project aid, Nepal's balance of payments has deteriorated over much of the past decade, and especially between fiscal 1983 and fiscal 1985, while real GDP has grown slowly. As the country's population has grown, agricultural surplus available for export has progressively declined. By the mid 1980s, these trends had led to such a weak foreign-exchange reserve position that in 1985, a demand-management program—with assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF)—was put into place.
The currency was devalued, and tight fiscal and monetary policies were introduced. In order to strengthen the economy further, a structural-adjustment program was introduced in 1987, supported by an IDA credit. The main emphasis of the program is on improving the country's weak public administration, particularly as it affects budgetary processes and public-investment projects. Efforts are also being made to increase agricultural output, both to meet increasing internal demand and to expand exports. Fertilizer-distribution and pricing policies have been changed in line with the objectives of the structural-adjustment credit. In addition, a new seed act has been drafted. These actions are likely to improve the supply, pricing, and distribution of agricultural inputs. While some imports and exports have been liberalized, the government intends to undertake a more comprehensive reform of the industry sector and trade and tariff regimes in the near future.
With Bank support, the government is giving high priority to the development of cottage and small industries because of their potential for foreign-exchange earnings and employment generation. IDA's project and structural-adjustment lending to Nepal are mutually supporting. Ongoing industrial projects are encouraging improvements in incentives in specific industries, and education projects are linked to the development of better management and worker skills.
4 The Indian fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.
5 The Burmese fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
A significant shift in the economic performance of the countries in the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region occurred in 1986, in large part caused by the precipitous decline in oil prices. Overall growth, balance-of-payments pressures, and debt burdens worsened in oil-exporting countries, while several oil importers benefited from terms-of-trade gains resulting from both lower international prices (in dollar terms) of manufactured imports and lower oil prices to register their best overall growth in a decade. Yet, despite these short-term changes, efforts at stabilization and adjustment continue to be needed because of heavy debt burdens and persisting domestic and external imbalances.
Growth in gross domestic product (GDP) in the three major oil-exporting borrowers in the region6 declined from 3.5 percent in 1985 to less than 1 percent in 1986, as both consumption and investment slowed in response to a terms-of-trade decline of 39 percent (the worst decline in the terms of trade in twenty years). Expenditure restraint fell most heavily on investment, which suffered an extraordinary 19 percent cutback, while consumption declined only slightly. Particularly hard hit by the oil-price decline was Algeria, which, despite buoyant growth in export volume and good performance in the agricultural sector, suffered a terms-of-trade loss of over 50 percent and a decline in GDP growth from over 3 percent in 1985 to zero in 1986. Tunisia's terms-of-trade loss was less (13 percent), because net hydrocarbon trade accounts for a smaller share of its exports, but its GDP growth rate fell from almost 6 percent in 1985 to - 1 percent in 1986, in part, because of a drought that resulted in a 13 percent decline in agricultural output from its record 1985 performance. Egypt increased output by 2 percent in 1986 due to modest growth in industry, agriculture, and services. The real GDP of the high-income oil-exporting countries7 rebounded slightly from 1985's figure of -3.8 percent as oil output increased, but, in general, their nonoil production continued to decline as a result of cutbacks in imports, investment, and government spending— all resulting from declining oil prices.
Growth of GDP in the major oil-importing borrowers,8 however, increased from 2.6 percent in 1985 to 5 percent in 1986, buoyed by a 6 percent improvement in their terms of trade and strong growth in both consumption and investment. Among the oil importers, Turkey had the highest growth (7.9 percent), followed by Morocco (5.7 percent), Portugal (4.3 per-
h Algeria, the Arab Republic of Egypt, and Tunisia.
7 Bahrain. Kuwait. Oman. Qatar. Saudi Arabia, and the
United Arab Emirates. x Hungary. Morocco. Portugal. Turkey, and Yugoslavia.
A young boy in Casablanca selling fruit. The Bank has supported Morocco's agriculture-sector adjustment program, designed to improve the growth rate in agriculture within the overall constraints in public resources, with a loan of $100 million.
cent), and Yugoslavia (3.5 percent). Industry, agriculture, and services all grew in each country, with expansion in agricultural output in Morocco and Turkey (15 percent and 10 percent, respectively); particularly worthy of note was industrial growth of over 8 percent in the same two countries. In contrast, growth in Hungary was weaker (1.6 percent), reflecting poor performance in both industry and agriculture. Although Jordan, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen are net importers of oil, they are closely linked to the high-income oil exporters through workers' remittances and aid flows; thus, despite terms-of-trade improvements, the net effect of the recent oil-price decline on their economies has been negative.
The developments in the balance of payments of the region's major borrowers reflect both changes in terms of trade and concurrent adjustments in trade volumes. The terms-of-trade losses of the oil-exporting countries were
offset by a decline of more than one Fifth in import volume and a modest increase in export volume, leading to relatively small changes in their current-account deficits. The deficits of Egypt (18 percent of GDP) and Tunisia (9 percent of GDP) continued to be large, while Algeria's current account slipped from being virtually in balance from 1980 to 1985 to registering a 1986 deficit of 2 percent of GDP. Trade developments in the major oil-importing countries followed the opposite pattern. On the average, exports fell by 1 percent in volume terms after four years of rapid growth, while import volumes soared; however, because terms-of-trade gains counteracted these changes in volumes, negligible changes took place in current-account balances. In Hungary, however, which did not benefit from terms-of-trade improvements because of its particular trade structure, the current account (in convertible currency) suffered a major slide, from a 2 percent surplus in 1984 to a 6 percent deficit in
1986. The pronounced drop in export growth in most major oil-importing borrowers is disappointing, considering the close linkage between trade performance and the long-run resolution of their debt problems.
Morocco was a noteworthy exception to these trade patterns. In volume terms, its exports grew by over 7 percent in 1986, while its imports increased only slightly; this, together with its terms-of-trade improvement, led to a decline in its current-account deficit to less than 1 percent of GDP, down from a high of 7 percent in the previous year. Despite enormous growth of 16.5 percent in import volume, Portugal also registered an improvement in its current account, due both to an increase in export volume and a significant gain in its terms of trade. This marks Portugal's fifth consecutive year of improvement in its current-account balance, which moved from a deficit of $3.2 billion (14 percent of GDP) in 1982 to a surplus of 4 percent of GDP in 1986.
The need for programs of adjustment remains strong in all of the region's major borrowers. High levels of debt (averaging over 50 percent of GDP) and heavy debt-servicing bur-
dens (averaging 41 percent of total exports) require export growth and prudent demand management. Although inflation fell somewhat in Turkey and Portugal in 1986, the problem continues in those countries and is of growing concern in Egypt. Inflation is most severe in Yugoslavia, where large increases in personal incomes and public-sector consumption, combined with accommodating money-supply growth, fueled a rate of inflation of 94 percent.
Problems of debt and inflation are closely linked to domestic fiscal imbalance. Government and overall public-sector budgets are in deficit in most of the region's borrowers. Egypt's fiscal deficit is close to 17 percent of GDP, while deficits in Algeria, Hungary, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and the Yemen Arab Republic are also significant. As part of their adjustment efforts, and, in many cases, with Bank assistance, these countries are exploring ways to cut public expenditures and increase domestic revenues.
In sum, for the major borrowers in the region, the past year continued to be one of stabilization and adjustment, despite the onetime benefit to oil importers from the precipi-
tous decline in oil prices. Concern with short-term debt and budget management and longer-term economic restructuring is prominent in higher-income borrowers of the region, including Hungary, Poland, and Yugoslavia, as well as in the middle-income borrowers of North Africa and the Middle East. Continuing efforts are needed to restore sustainable growth over the medium and long term, reduce the debt burden, improve external and fiscal balances, and rationalize incentive structures to improve efficiency and increase economic competitiveness. These efforts must be pursued against a background of continuing structural change, marked by growth of industry and urbanization.
In the 1987 fiscal year, the Bank assisted the process of adjustment and structural change in its regional borrowers9 with project lending throughout the region and with extensive adjustment lending (in Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey). A first agricultural-sector adjustment loan to Tunisia, designed to rationalize agricultural pricing and improve efficiency and output in the sector, as well as an industrial and trade-policy adjustment loan to stimulate efficient industrial and export growth, was approved during the year. Concern with institutional development, efficiency in the public sector, and overextension of central government in the provision of services was a motivating force behind the public-enterprise restructuring loan approved for Morocco, as it had been in the education-sector adjustment loan approved in the previous year. An energy-sector adjustment loan was approved for Turkey, the latest in a long series of sector-adjustment loans to that country designed to deepen the process of structural change. This extensive adjustment lending aims at accelerating the process of managed structural change to which all three countries are vigorously committed.
The Challenge of Human Resources
Accompanying the need for economic stabilization and adjustment (and given urgency by the high rate of population growth) is the concern throughout the region for human-resource development. Continued improvement in the welfare and skills of people and the conditions in which they live is critical to increasing efficiency and achieving long-term growth and structural change. Yet, tight resources and cutbacks in public expenditure significantly handicap efforts to increase the quantity and improve the quality of social services. Several Bank initiatives in the year focused on helping countries meet their continuing human-resource needs and improve
their human-resource base in this period of relative austerity.
The most pressing social problems are found in the middle-income countries of the Middle East, North Africa, and Turkey.10 While relatively low incomes constrain the resources that can be devoted to the social sectors, rapid population growth—especially among the young and in urban areas—results in ever-increasing demands for jobs and basic social services. Despite a significant fail in the average number of children born to women in their childbearing years, from over 6.7 in 1965 to 5.0 in the mid 1980s, population growth in these countries remains at a relatively high 2.6 percent, with 45 percent of their population under the age of fifteen. The rate of population growth in urban areas is an even higher 4.2 percent, exacerbating the already pressing need for urban housing, social services, transport, and water supply. (See Table 5-16.)
Except for Oman, which is short of domestic labor and depends on expatriate workers, productive job creation is one of the foremost challenges in these countries. In addition to natural population growth, increasing participation of women is adding to the size of the domestic labor force.11 Although female participation is still relatively low, increasing participation is noticeable, for example, in Algeria, Jordan, and Morocco, and the trend is likely to accelerate given the rapid expansion of educational opportunities open to females.
Furthermore, as oil prices stabilize at lower levels and real wages fall in the high-income, oil-exporting countries of the region, fewer employment opportunities will exist and migrant workers may continue to return home, adding still more pressure on domestic labor markets. This phenomenon is already pronounced in the Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, which, at the peak of the oil boom, supplied an estimated 1 million and 100,000 expatriate workers (50 percent and 20 percent of their national labor forces), respectively, to the
9 Several member countries in the region are not currently in a position to make use of the Bank's resources. These include Afghanistan, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, and Syria. ln Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Oman, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Their combined population of 173 million has an average per capita income of approximately SI,200. Although Oman is a relatively high-income country, its social indicators are similar to those of the other countries in this group. " Except in Turkey, where female participation has long been high.
high-income oil exporters. Many of these workers were employed in low-skill jobs in construction, a sector that has not only been declining as infrastructure and housing projects near completion, but which has recently been particularly affected by expenditure cutbacks, as well.
Egyptians and Jordanians also migrated in large numbers to neighboring, high-income oil exporters. The estimated 2.5 million Egyptian migrants (one fifth of Egypt's labor force) form the largest group in absolute numbers, while Jordan's 300,000 expatriates constitute a larger proportion (two fifths) of its total labor force. Both have tended to supply more highly educated workers, who have filled positions as teachers, doctors, engineers, clerks, and craftsmen, and both share a privileged position in the Middle East (compared to those Asian countries that supply skilled labor) due to common culture, religion, and language. Demand for these workers is less likely to fall dramatically, and, therefore, return migration, as such, will not seriously affect domestic employment. However, the rapidly increasing labor force in the neighboring countries will be faced with much-reduced opportunities for employment in the high-income oil exporters in the years to come. Significant declines in both remittances and real domestic wages are occurring, however, as a result of the fall of expatriate wages in the high-income, oil-exporting countries by an estimated 40 percent over the past few years.
While finding productive employment opportunities for a rapidly expanding labor force is perhaps the most pressing social problem, at
present, in most Middle Eastern and North African countries, social services also need to be expanded and improved. All of these countries made great strides in health and education in the 1970s, yet they still face major challenges in these areas. Average life expectancy at birth was fifty years in 1965 and is now sixty years. On the low and high ends of this spectrum, life expectancy in the Yemen Arab Republic rose from thirty-seven to forty-five over this period, while, in Jordan, it rose from fifty to sixty-four years. Even in a relatively high-income country such as Oman, life expectancy at birth is only fifty-three, after a rapid rise from forty-three during this period. Infant mortality has also improved dramatically in these countries, falling from 160 per thousand in 1965 to 90 in the mid 1980s. Yet, 90 is still high, well above the 55-to-65 level typical in lower-income and middle-income countries of Latin America and Asia.
Basic educational opportunities also expanded during the 1970s, as primary-school enrollment rose from two thirds to almost nine tenths of primary-age children. Primary-school coverage is now virtually 100 percent in Jordan, Syria, and Tunisia, while it has reached 55 percent in the Yemen Arab Republic and 65 percent in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, up from only 9 percent and 23 percent, respectively, in 1965. Major challenges remain, however, in expanding secondary, higher-level, and vocational educational opportunities, improving quality at all levels, coordinating education and training programs with employment opportunities, and enhancing educational opportunities for females.
Meeting these and other important human resource needs, given the tight resource constraints existing in these countries, is the challenge now facing both the countries and the Bank. Five themes were central in the Bank's work in the social sectors of these countries during the past fiscal year.
• Although significant short-term social costs are often unavoidable in the adjustment process, a high priority of the Bank's adjustment lending is to increase longer-term labor absorption in concordance with other macro-economic goals. In Morocco, for example, where official statistics cite a recent rise in urban unemployment from 12 percent to 18 percent, a major aim of the Bank's two recent industry and trade-policy loans has been to raise the price of capital relative to labor, thereby increasing the incentive to employ labor in manufacturing. Rising real interest rates, a tightening of tax-depreciation rules,
declining real exchange rates, and falling real wages, together, have resulted in an almost doubling of the price of capital relative to labor over the past five years. Manufacturing employment has increased more than 20 percent, and performance has been exceptional in relatively labor-intensive export industries.
Similarly, the two nonproject loans to Tunisia approved in fiscal 1987 (agriculture, industry and trade) gave major emphasis to employment creation, again through a change in relative factor costs in favor of labor, and, also, through the stimulation of agricultural production and manufacturing production for export, both of which are particularly labor intensive.
• Increased efforts are being made to improve cost effectiveness and target resource allocation carefully in the social sectors. Expansion of preventive and primary health care, rather than more expensive hospital care, is an objective of the Bank's new health project in
Oman and has been suggested in its recent health sector work in Turkey. Expanding access to, and quality of, primary and secondary-education, while reducing per-student costs, are important objectives of the education-sector loan in Morocco. Beyond secondary school, the Bank's recent work in education has stressed vocational, managerial, and technical training to increase the flexibility of the labor force in meeting labor-market needs. All of these initiatives have the common theme of using available resources more effectively.
• Ways to strengthen resource mobilization for the social sectors are being explored and tested. One means is cost recovery through increased user charges in such areas as higher education and municipal services. In Morocco, for instance, fee-paying structures have been introduced for technical and vocational training. Jordan has a long-established tradition of school fees and parental contribution to educational expenditures. Another mode of cost recovery is greater involvement of the private sector, as incorporated into Turkey's non-formal vocational-training loan. Still another is the exploration of new funding mechanisms, such as expanded social-security schemes. Furthermore, the general thrust of Bank recommendations in its recent investment and expenditure reviews has been to defend or even increase total expenditures on human-resource development, while increasing cost effectiveness through institutional reform. The need, both to increase cost recovery, as well as to improve cost effectiveness in social services, is recognized increasingly by member governments, and a number of policy changes in this respect are imminent.
• An urgent need exists to improve the institutional capabilities, planning procedures, and management techniques in the social sectors. For example, the Bank's long involvement with the Yemen Arab Republic's Education Research and Development Center, including additional support to education planning to be provided through a teacher-training project approved in fiscal 1987, has aimed at building indigenous planning capabilities in education in that country. Training and institutional support has also been a component of recent Bank projects in urban development in Jordan, Turkey, Tunisia, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
• Efforts are being made to integrate women more fully in the development process. The southern regional agricultural-development project in the Yemen Arab Republic, approved in fiscal 1987, includes a component to provide women farmers with extension services in agriculture and home economics. In addition,
several current operations in the education sector focus on improving the access of girls to primary and secondary education, training women in various highly marketable skill specializations, and enhancing the participation rate of women in the labor force. The facilities to be financed under the national urban-development project in Jordan, approved in fiscal 1987, include a number of women's training centers providing formal training, as well as community centers that provide informal training to women and day-care for their children.
Elsewhere, Challenges of a Different Sort
The higher-income borrowing countries of the region (Cyprus, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Romania, and Yugoslavia) face quite different human-resource challenges. Aside from relatively high per capita incomes, their populations are growing slowly (less than 1 percent a year), their social indicators are positive (with average life expectancy of over seventy years and infant mortality of only twenty-four), the participation of women in their economies is strong, their education and health systems are extensive and widely accessible, and their unemployment rates tend to be relatively low.
The major challenges now facing these countries are the need to promote more effective managerial behavior, the need to increase the skills, flexibility, and mobility of the labor force, and the need to motivate workers and provide incentives for better performance in order to improve the overall efficiency of their economies to meet the challenges of more outward-oriented economic policies. Retraining programs are needed to enhance mobility and thereby smooth the adjustment process. Freer wage scales and nondistortionary wage tax structures are needed to induce greater work effort and labor productivity. Greater autonomy for enterprises is essential in altering managerial behavior. The Bank is now addressing some of these issues in its economic and sector work and through its lending operations, most notably through a series of industrial-restructuring loans in Hungary.
Coordinating Education with Labor-force Needs
The social indicators of the high-income oil exporters in the region have improved dramatically in the past fifteen years and now lie between those of the higher-income borrowing countries and the other borrowers of the region. Average life expectancy is sixty-four years, and infant mortality is approximately fifty. Although population growth (5.4 percent a year, including migration) and urban growth (7.7 percent a year) are extremely high, the
problems resulting from such growth are less severe than in the middle-income countries because of the high long-term demand for labor and the social services already in place for the large pool of expatriate workers.
The major human-resource challenge in the high-income, oil-exporting countries is to motivate their citizens to seek educational opportunities that match long-run labor force needs in order to integrate their own nationals more
effectively into the labor force. In the 1987 fiscal year, the Bank, through its program of reimbursable technical assistance, assisted both Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates in analyzing their long-term labor demands and the effectiveness of their educational systems in meeting them. More work along these lines is expected in other countries in the near future.
Latin America and the Caribbean
In 1986, several countries of the Latin America and Caribbean region accelerated their recovery from the severe recession that overtook the region in the early 1980s. As a result of policies aimed at increasing consumption and made possible by the existence of substantial excess capacity, the Peruvian and Brazilian economies led the advance (8.5 percent and 8 percent, respectively). Strong advances (of be-
tween 5 percent and 6 percent) also took place in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, and Uruguay. Unlike Brazil and Peru, some of these countries have introduced economic policies that are helping to provide the basis for sustained recovery in the future. In other Latin American countries, output on a per capita basis either declined or stagnated.
Despite the recovery in some countries, per capita output failed to increase significantly for the sixth consecutive year for the Latin America and the Caribbean region as a whole; at present, per capita output remains about 8 percent below the 1980 level. Because of the cumulative deterioration, of 20 percent, in the region's external terms of trade that has taken place in the past six years and the rise in interest payments abroad, national income on a per capita basis is now estimated to be about 30 percent below the level of 1980.
On the plus side, major policy reforms have been initiated by most Latin American countries; many have strengthened their exchange-rate and interest-rate policies, and progress has been made in some in reducing large fiscal deficits and in pursuing more appropriate monetary policies. However, many other countries have been slow to undertake the types of comprehensive structural policy reforms that can lead to improved resource allocation and increased efficiency. Such reforms include rationalization of incentive and foreign-trade regimes, overhaul of public-enterprise systems, and implementation of institutional reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness of public-sector investment. In these countries, serious internal and external imbalances continue to impede sustained recovery.
Some Latin American countries achieved dramatic deceleration of inflation in 1986 as a consequence of the adoption of effective stabilization measures. Other countries, however, placed excessive reliance on price freezes that could not be sustained without having given adequate attention to eliminating the underlying causes of their imbalance. In these countries, inflation is again accelerating after a temporary hiatus.
Failure to Strengthen Creditworthiness
Over the past year, most Latin American countries also experienced serious setbacks in their efforts to strengthen their external position and restore creditworthiness. These setbacks, in large part, were the result of adverse external developments. The surplus in the region's merchandise trade balance fell by 45 percent as a consequence of a 15 percent decline in export earnings and a slight increase in the level of imports. Except in Brazil, the decline of export revenues was primarily the consequence of further declines, by 12 percent, in world prices of most of the region's major exports; the region's external terms of trade fell by 9 percent after falling by 5 percent the year before. Because declines in world interest rates were not large enough to compensate for the deterioration in the region's merchandise trade balance, which fell from $33.5 billion in 1985 to $18.5 billion, there was a substantial increase ($10 billion) in the current deficit of the external accounts—from —$4 billion in 1985 to -$14 billion in 1986. Capital inflows were not sufficient to cover the current-account deficit and, as a consequence, international reserves fell by about $6 billion.
Latin American and Caribbean petroleum exporters were hit the hardest. Collapse of the world price of oil had a severe adverse impact on economic growth, external balance, and creditworthiness indicators of the region's petroleum exporters (Venezuela, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia). Exporters of agricultural commodities were also adversely affected by further declines in the prices of their major exports in world markets. Prices of many of Latin America's commodity exports (sugar, wheat, and copper, for example) have fallen to their lowest level in real terms in several decades. Coffee was an exception, however, as its price increased substantially in 1985 and remained high throughout much of the past year, the consequence of drought that caused production in Brazil to drop by 45 percent from the previous year. Prices of coffee have declined since the first quarter of 1986 and are now expected to be well below the 1986 average.
The region's external debt outstanding (an estimated $382 billion at the end of 1986) showed no significant increase in real terms for the third consecutive year. Available evidence indicates that net commercial bank lending to the region declined in nominal terms. Loans by the official international lending institutions were the major source of fresh financing. Despite the lack of increase in the region's external debt in real terms, most indicators of the
The main pipeline that brings water to drive the turbines at the Arenal hydroelectric plant in Costa Rica. Cumulative lending in support of power projects in the Latin America and the Caribbean region is closing in on the $10 billion mark, and accounts for almost a third of all such lending to the sector.
region's creditworthiness declined for the second consecutive year as a result of substantially lower revenues from exports. The debt-to-exports (goods and services) ratio increased from 3.2 in 1984 and 3.4 in 1985 to 4.0 during the year. And, although world interest rates declined, permitting the ratio of interest service payments to exports of goods and services to remain constant at 35 percent, the interest-coverage ratio (that portion of interest payments on external debt covered by the surplus on merchandise trade) fell from 80 percent in 1985 to 46 percent.
Excluding the Latin American countries for which coffee exports are a major source of foreign exchange (Colombia, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica, and Honduras), only Chile and Uruguay managed to improve their creditworthiness indicators during the year. Uruguay's achievement was the result of a 34 percent real increase in its exports. Chile expanded its noncopper exports by a cumulative 30 percent in real terms during the past two years, while Ecuador and Colombia also registered significant increases in their nontradition-
al exports. In these countries, strong export incentives have been in place for some time. Impressive gains were also registered by Mexico's nonpetroleum exports, and substantial reflows of private capital occurred as a consequence of improved foreign-exchange and interest-rate policies. By January 31, 1987, Chile had reduced its external debt by a cumulative $1.6 billion through a debt-conversion arrangement that encourages, among other things, foreign investment in the local economy and repatriation of flight capital.
One of the most comprehensive programs of reform was initiated in Bolivia in August 1985. Constituting a coherent and comprehensive policy package to address the country's economic crisis, its focus, initially, was on stabilization, halting inflation, and restoring balance in the external account. The government also launched longer-term structural-adjustment measures aimed at dismantling most price controls, reforming the trade regime, restructuring ailing public enterprises, and overhauling the tax system. The government has pursued its economic policies with remarkable tenacity and has reduced inflation to less than 20 percent in the past twelve months.
The positive achievements of these countries were the direct result of policies enacted to accelerate recovery and restore creditworthiness. Such results generally do not occur immediately, however. Frequently, stabilization measures and policies designed to bring about long-term structural transformation, all aimed at accelerating growth over the medium term, may entail painful adjustments in the short term. In most instances, strong economic medicine is politically unpalatable because its immediate side effects—difficult but needed short-term adjustments—are so palpable that the medium-term positive effects are lost sight of. Governments that have not successfully carried out policy reforms have most often been those that have either been unable to muster required political support or have found it difficult to sustain reforms in the absence of recovery of output, employment, and incomes. The greater the extent to which external forces are supportive of the adjustment process and operate to reduce the time lag between the introduction of structural-adjustment measures and their positive results, the greater is the likelihood that such reforms will be sustained over the medium term and longer.
During the past year, external factors, on balance, hurt the countries of Latin America. On the one hand, sharply declining world interest rates did contribute to the adjustment efforts of Latin American countries by reducing the outflow of resources required to service external debt; on the other hand, price declines of the region's major export commodities outweighed the positive effects of the decline in interest rates. The weakness of world commodity prices was related to slower growth in the industrial countries and to agricultural regimes in these countries that reduce market access of the Latin American countries. International trade can play a crucial role in supporting adjustment and resumption of growth of the Latin American countries—but only if strong economic growth in the industrial countries is restored and Latin American countries are given access to the highly protected markets that exist in a number of these countries.
Mixed Developments in Major Countries
In 1986, Argentina was able to combine strong resumption of growth of output (5.5 percent) with a significant reduction in inflation (about 79 percent for the year, down from 385 percent in 1985). However, the country was adversely affected by sharply falling international prices for its major grain exports (wheat and maize). This factor, combined with a moderate expansion of imports needed to support economic recovery, resulted in an increase in the current-account deficit of the balance of payments to S2.6 billion (3.8 percent of GDP). Resurgence of inflation forced the government to slow down growth toward the end of the year.
After the promising start of its stabilization plan, which relied heavily on a price freeze, Brazil's efforts to reduce inflation proved unsuccessful. Although real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by about 8 percent in 1986, an overheated economy, coupled with the relaxation of price controls in the face of growing shortages and falling profit margins, raised the rate of inflation from about 1 percent a month in the months following the adoption of the plan to over 15 percent a month by the beginning of 1987. At the same time, Brazil's monthly trade surplus fell from $1 billion to about $100 million, as production for export was shifted to the domestic market. The consequence was a sharp decline in international reserves. Trade surpluses reached over $500 million in April, more than $900 million in May, and close to $1.2 billion in June. On June 12, the government took a series of measures to slash the country's inflation rate through a wage-and-price freeze limited to a maximum of
ninety days, established a new set of rules for wage changes after the freeze, sharply curtailed public spending, increased prices of public utilities, eliminated wheat subsidies, and devalued the cruzado in real terms, in addition to the traditional daily corrections.
These measures are an integral part of a macroeconomic program unveiled shortly after, which, if politically supported and implemented with rigor, should contribute to the restoration of business confidence and the improvement of the investment climate over the medium term. The government hopes that the measures might serve as a basis for reaching mutually satisfactory agreement with commercial creditors in the near future.
For the past several years, Chile has been successfully implementing a far-reaching structural-adjustment program. Output increased by 5.7 percent during 1986, and, as a consequence, unemployment fell to 9 percent and inflation dropped to 19.5 percent, down from 30.7 percent in the previous year. Substantial progress has also been achieved in restoring internal and external balances through a comprehensive program of fiscal, monetary, and wage restraint and through the maintenance of public health services, especially for children. And, because incentives for exports have been strengthened, sustained progress in export diversification and expansion is taking place. Despite the large external-debt overhang, the country appears to have initiated the means by which economic recovery can be sustained.
Colombia, too, emerged from a period of slower growth and external and internal imbalances in 1986, as its economy grew by more than 5 percent. The country achieved a surplus in the current account of its balance of payments, equivalent to over 2 percent of GDP, and managed to reduce its overall public-sector deficit to less than 1 percent of GDP. A major impetus for this economic resurgence came from the program of stabilization and adjustment that was adopted in late 1984 and which was maintained through 1985 and 1986. The recovery was also aided by a boom in Colombia's major export—coffee—and the change in Colombia's position from an oil importer to an oil exporter as a result of the increased exploitation of the country's newly discovered petroleum reserves at Cano Limon.
On the heels of both a tragic earthquake and modest growth in 1985, Mexico's economy contracted by 3.5 percent. Throughout much of the year, the government was occupied with efforts to devise and start implementing a growth-oriented program of adjustment and structural change, to negotiate an external financing package (including improved terms for
the country's existing debt), and to design a standby program with support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Despite the collapse of international oil prices and a resulting export revenue loss equivalent to 6 percent of GDP, Mexico's external position showed recovery by the end of the year, partly the result of a 35 percent growth in nonoil exports that was encouraged by an active exchange-rate policy and a modest liberalization of imports. In addition, highly positive domestic interest rates, together with a squeeze on credit to the private sector, stimulated repatriation of flight capital. Measures affecting controls on public spending, strengthening of pa-rastatal management, and the cutting back of subsidies, helped contain the operational fiscal deficit to 1.8 percent of GDP. Triple digit inflation—although, at 105 percent, slightly lower than original projections for the year— remains the single most important issue of economic management.
In Peru, consumption-led economic reactivation, fueled by large increases in real wages in both the private and public sectors, caused real GDP to grow by 8.5 percent. The manufacturing and construction sectors led the advance. Exports fell 13 percent in real terms, while imports rose by 10 percent. Despite limitations imposed by the government on its debt-service payments, Peru's net foreign exchange reserves fell by over $500 million. Faced with continued declining reserves, the government introduced measures in late 1986 to stimulate exports and export-related investments. While inflation fell significantly in 1986 as compared with 1985 (78 percent as against
163 percent), it has accelerated since the beginning of 1987.
Uruguay continued its efforts to stabilize and revitalize its economy, and concluded a multiyear rescheduling agreement with creditor banks that will provide relief equivalent to about $2 billion during the period 1985-89. The combined effect of these efforts created a favorable climate for expansion in the economy, which appears to have ended a four-year recession. Growth of GDP is estimated at over 5 percent for 1986, unemployment fell to below 10 percent, and export earnings increased by 24 percent. As a consequence, a trade surplus of about $200 million and a small current-account surplus was registered. Imports of capital goods also increased, sharply reflecting renewed private-sector investment activity.
The Caribbean in Recovery
Almost all Caribbean countries continued to show recovery in 1986, as economies throughout the subregion were stimulated by a strong demand for tourism services from North America and Europe, declines in petroleum prices, and the fall in interest rates. Following two years of decline, the Jamaican economy recorded a modest upturn in 1986, as growth of output was estimated at 2 percent; the economy of Barbados grew at 3 percent in real terms. The smaller economies of the Eastern Caribbean registered growth rates of over 4 percent: Economic growth in St. Lucia and Antigua and Barbuda was the most rapid, at 6 percent. In almost all countries, fiscal performance was substantially strengthened. The oil-based economy of Trinidad and Tobago was
the one major exception, as the collapse of world petroleum prices set back almost every indicator of economic activity and creditworthiness.
Tourist arrivals in the Caribbean increased by about 5 percent. This increase was larger than any registered since 1981. Among the countries recording increases in tourism of 10 percent or more were Jamaica and the countries of the Eastern Caribbean. Improvements in cultivation, harvesting, and organization of marketing companies, aided by improvement in comparative advantage over other countries, contributed to an expansion of banana exports. The external markets for the region's other products—bauxite, alumina, and sugar— remained weak, however. The continued reduction in United States sugar quotas adversely affected a number of the Caribbean economies.
The past year has seen a growing readiness among Caribbean nations to shift policies and embark on programs of structural adjustment. This was especially evident at the eighth meeting of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED), which took place at the World Bank in January 1987. The CGCED, which serves eighteen Caribbean countries and is chaired by the Bank, has succeeded in increasing the number of donors, improving the coordination of aid, and enhancing the effectiveness of that aid by focusing attention on the region's highest developmental priorities.
Adjustment Lending Increased
Throughout the year, the World Bank strengthened its role in assisting Latin American countries to reestablish adequate rates of economic growth. Project lending aimed at expanding hydroelectric power facilities, ports, schools, highways, and agricultural and industrial production continued to be the principal means through which the Bank provides assistance.
Because of the decline, since 1982, in resources available for investment in Latin America, the number of traditional projects that are suitable for external financing has declined. In addition, the need for quick-disbursing loans has increased. The Bank, therefore, has increased considerably its commitments for adjustment lending. These commitments support policy reforms aimed at strengthening a country's economic structure and at overcoming the constraints that impede
sustained economic recovery. Adjustment lending may focus on development policy, broadly defined, as was the case in Chile, Haiti, Panama, and Uruguay; or, it may take the form of sector loans for agriculture (Ecuador), industry (Mexico), and other sectors that are critical to the adjustment process.
Thus, in fiscal 1987, almost one third of the Bank's commitments to Latin American countries took the form of quick-disbursing loans. These loans supported adoption of tax reform, financial restructuring, rationalization of trade regimes, strengthening of export incentives, and improvement of public-investment planning and programming. Structural-adjustment loans of $250 million and $80 million were made to Chile and Uruguay, respectively. In Haiti, an IDA credit was designed to help the country reform public finances and economic policies, stimulate economic growth, and establish conditions from which retrogression to the inappropriate policies of the past would be difficult.
In Argentina, the Bank approved a $500 million trade-policy and export-diversification loan in support of government's efforts to improve export competitiveness and increase the efficiency of Argentine industry. A $500 million trade-policy loan approved for Mexico supports the government's implementation of trade reform as a means to improve industrial efficiency and international competitiveness. This loan complemented comprehensive financial and technical support by the Bank, including assistance in financing an export-development project to support diversification of exports other than oil for Mexico's trade-liberalization program.
The Bank also further intensified the economic policy dialogue with its Latin American borrowers. The dialogue has expanded to encompass all important aspects of stabilization and development-policy reform. At the same time, the Bank has become more active in its efforts to mobilize external resources for the Latin American countries by strengthening its links with other creditors. In some cases, as in Chile, Mexico, and Panama, World Bank disbursement has become the trigger for disbursements by other creditors. In others, as in Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico, the Bank has helped to mobilize additional external resources through use of its various cofinancing instruments, including the selective use of Bank guarantees of later maturities of commercial bank loans.
Rush-hour traffic in Cairo. A Bank loan of $59 million is supporting improvements in the efficiency of Cairo's public-transport system.
Section Six
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA and African Facility Assistance in Fiscal Year 1987
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ADAB—Australian Development
Assistance Bureau ADF—African Development Fund AfDB—African Development Bank AFHSD   Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development AFVP—Association Franchise des
Volontaires du Progres AGCD—Belgium Administration for
Development Cooperation AsDB—Asian Development Bank BADEA—Arab.Bank for Economic
Development in Africa BOAD—West African Development Bank CARE—Cooperative for American Relief
Everywhere CCCJ:   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation :
Economique CDB—Caribbean Development Bank CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency CIM—Center for International Migration DANIDA—Danish International
Development Agency : EDF—European Development Fund EEC—European Economic Community FJB—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation FMO—Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation
IDB—Inter-American Development Bank IF.C International Finance Corporation IFAD—-International Fund for Agricultural
Development IsDB—Islamic Development Bank KFAEJ3—Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development Kl'W—Kreditanstalt fflf: Wiederaufbau NORAD—Norwegian Agency for
International Development ODA—Overseas Development
Administration : OFCF   Overseas Economic Cooperation
I'll lid
OPEC:—Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries SDC   Swiss Development Corporation SIDA—Swedish International Development
Authority UNCDF—United Nations Capital
Development fund UNDP — United Nations Development
Programme Unesco—United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization UNFPA—United Nations Fund for
Population Activities UNICEF—United Nations Children's
Fund
USAID—United States Agency for
International Development WFP   World Food Programme
Agriculture and Rural Development
ALGERIA: IBRD—$94 million. A priority investment package for irrigation development of the Cheliff river basin will be financed, as well as new and replicable institutional arrangements to ensure adequate water management, operation, and maintenance; large-scale irrigation areas will also be expanded. Total cost: $185.6 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$20 million.: A fourth flood-control and drainage project aims at protecting against crop losses, loss of life, and property damage due to floods:
enhancement of the physical environment to allow farmers to adopt improved agricultural practices; and strengthening of the Bangladesh Water Development Board. CofinancJng($l,l million) is anticipated from the EEC. Total cost: $27.5 million. BARBADOS: IBRD—$4 million. The viability of Baxbados's agricultural sector will be improved through promotion of greater crop diversification away from sugar by assisting
Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval.
the government to define and implement a technically, financially, and economically sound agricultural-sector development strategy and by helping increase production of, and incomes from, crops other than suear. Total cost: $5.8 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$171 million. Some 80,000 low-income farm families in the state of Bahia are to benefit from a project, one of ten within the Northeast Rural Development Program, designed to increase agricultural production and productivity, generate employment opportunities, increase state and regional institutional capacity to provide agricultural services, and promote water-resource development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease vulnerability to drought. An additional 150,000 people are to benefit from project components dealing with water supply, community development, and marketing services. Total cost: $356.2 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$122 million. More than 100,000 low-income farm families in Ceara state are to benefit from a project, one of ten within the Northeast Rural Development Program, designed to increase agricultural production and productivity, generate employment opportunities, increase the state's ability to provide efficient agricultural services, and promote water-resource development, together with technology generation and diffusion to decrease smallholders' vulnerability to drought. Total cost: $254.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$84 million. Some 73,000 low-income farm families are to benefit from a project in the state of Maranhao that includes construction of four small irrigation schemes, studies for possible future irrigation projects, construction of simple water-supply systems, construction of two fish hatcheries, adaptive agricultural research and basic seed production, provision of extension services, investment credit, marketing support services, funding for community subprojects, demarcation and protection of a natural reserve, project administration, and training. Total cost: $172.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD--S78 million. Some 65,000 low-income farm families are to benefit from a project in the state of Piaui, one of ten within the Northeast Rural Development Program, that aims to increase agricultural production and productivity, generate employment opportunities, increase the state's ability to provide efficient agricultural services, and promote water-resource development and technology generation and diffusion to reduce vulnerability to drought.
Others will also benefit from project components dealing with water supply, community development, fisheries, and marketing. Total cost: $160.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$60 million. About 45,000 low-income rural families living in Paraiba state are to benefit from a project that includes the construction of irrigation schemes, studies for possible future irrigation projects, construction or rehabilitation of rural water-supply systems, adaptive agricultural research and basic seed production, extension services, investment credit, marketing support services, project administration, and training. Total cost: $123.9 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$55 million. Some 50,000 low-income rural families living in Minas Gerais state are to benefit from a project that provides for the construction of irrigation schemes, studies for possible future irrigation projects, construction or rehabilitation of rural water-supply systems, adaptive agricultural research and basic seed production, extension services, investment credit, marketing support services, funding for community subprojects, project administration, and training. Total cost: $113.5 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$51 million. Livestock productivity is to increase by decreasing production losses due to disease through assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture in transforming existing federal and state veterinary departments into modern, cost-effective services. Total cost: $108.4 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$42 million. Some 40,000 low-income rural families living in Alagoas state are to benefit from a project that includes the construction of rural water-supply schemes, provision of extension services, investment credit, marketing support services, funding for community subprojects, project administration, and training. Total cost: $86.4 million.
BURMA: IDA—$14 million. This first in a series of major investments for rehabilitation and modernization of large river-diversion systems is expected to provide a more reliable supply of irrigation water to about 20,000 farm families in the Ye-U command area, which, combined with improved water management, extension, and supply of inputs, would lead to increased cropped areas, higher yields, and an expansion in production of rice and pulses. Cofinancing ($1.8 million) is being provided by the UNDP. Total cost: $26.1 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD   $17.8 million. Agricultural research will be reoriented
towards solving problems of food crops and livestock production to enhance its effectiveness and relevance to the needs of small farmers Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($1.6 million) and the GTZ ($800,000) Total cost: S43.2 million.
CHAD: IDA—$ 17.4 million. The agriculture sector will be rehabilitated and development accelerated in the wake of a devastating civil war and debilitating drought. Total cost. $17.6 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$20 million; IDA—$150.5 million. Poverty in Gansu province will be reduced and rural incomes raised through implementation of a development strategy focusing on a combination of efforts in three key sectors: agriculture, industry, and education The project is designed to increase agricultural production through land rehabilitation and irrigation development, raise the productivity of the labor force through educational improvements, and to develop employment opportunities in light and rural industries Total cost: $323.1 million.
CHINA: IDA—$70 million. Through the construction of irrigation works, improvement of rainfed pasture, and the introduction of improved animal breeds, 24.000 full-time jobs will be generated and farm-family incomes raised on twenty state farms in northern Xinjiang province. Total cost: $115 million.
CHINA: IDA—$40 million. Some 41,000 full-time jobs are expected to be created and farm-family incomes to triple through a project that will demonstrate efficient methods of developing the productive potential of currently unutilized land in the red soil areas of south China Total cost: $122.2 million.
COSTA RICA- IBRD—$26 million. Through provision of credit, improvement of rural roads, issuance of land titles, technical assistance, and the strengthening of project administration, production of agricultural exports is expected to increase, thus supporting the government's program of economic recovery and structural adjustment. Total cost. $43 5 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$34 million. By the end of project implementation, it is expected that about half of all Ivorian farmers will benefit from the introduction of the first phase in a longer-term development effort to introduce the main principles of the traimng-and-visit system in the extension services of the country's three major rural-development agencies. Total cost: $58.5 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$48 million. Farm
employment and farmers' incomes will rise through a project to expand production, especially of exportable products, increase farmers' profitability through onfarm investments, improve operating efficiency of public and private banks in agricultural lending, enhance domestic resource mobilization, and stimulate the participation of private banks in agricultural lending. Total cost: $93 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$45 million. The supply of fuelwood and building poles to Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar will increase through the establishment of plantations and the upgrading of existing plantations in nearby areas. Provision of applied forestry research and postgraduate training in forestry is included Total cost $62.1 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$39 million. As the first phase of a long-term program, three essential elements in improving animal production will be addressed: animal health, animal nutrition, and support services. Institutional development of the Ministry of Agriculture is included Cofinancing ($7.7 million) is anticipated from IFAD. Total cost: $57.2 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$7 million. Through the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes in drought-affected areas, together with conservation and agricultural support in Hararghe region, the problems caused by frequent drought and increasing desertification will be addressed. Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($12 million), the OPEC Special Fund (S4 million), and the WFP ($1 million). Total cost: $33.7 million.
GHANA: IDA—$17 million. A self-sustaining process of rehabilitation will be initiated so that the Ministry of Agriculture can give more effective support to agriculture. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB (S25 million), the KfW ($8.5 million), and the UNDP ($1.5 million). Total cost: $53.3 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$9.8 million The productivity of the country's cattle herd will increase, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production, improving nutrition, and raising herdsmen's incomes through a project that includes support for the privatization of livestock services, strengthening of a reduced public livestock sector, and provision of consultant services. Cofinancing is anticipated from BADEA ($4.5 million), the CCCE ($3.8 million), and the FAC ($1.4 million). Total cost S22.2 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$3.7 million. Institution-building assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Rural
Development and Fisheries. Cofinancing ($2 5 million) is anticipated from the Netherlands. Total cost: $7 million. HUNGARY: IBRD—$100 million. Through provision of farm machinery for crop improvement and reclamation of land, the construction and operation of liquid-fertilizer plants, and measures aimed at institutional development, production of agricultural goods for export and import-substitutes will be expanded, resulting in the maintenance and increase of foreign-exchange earnings in convertible currency. Total cost: $340.8 million
INDIA IDA—$114 million. Productivity and farm incomes in existing irrigation schemes will be increased through the provision of low-cost infrastructural improvements in selected schemes to support newly developed, more efficient operating plans Total cost $157 million.
INDIA IDA—$85 million. The traimng-and-visit system of agricultural extension will be introduced in the states of Himachal Pradesh and in eastern Uttar Pradesh, and the reorganized agricultural-extension system and the linkages between extension and research that had been introduced in the state of Assam further strengthened Total cost. $140.2 million.
INDIA. IDA—$68 million Agricultural production in Bihar state will increase through the construction of tubewells, the modernization and rehabilitation of existing tubewells, the construction of power lines to tubewells, and provision of management-training services and technical services Total cost: $99 7 million
INDONESIA IBRD—$70 million Efforts to improve extension services for food crops and estate crops will be consolidated through recruitment of field-extension workers; construction of new rural-extension centers and animal-health posts and the expansion of existing ones; procurement of vehicles, equipment, and furniture; and provision of training and technical assistance Total cost $136.2 million.
INDONESIA IBRD—$24.5 million Almost 7,000 small-scale coastal aquaculture fishermen and 400 small-scale marine fishermen are to benefit from a project aiming at expanding private investment in the export-oriented segments of the sector, increasing productivity of fisheries investments, improving efficiency in the use of government funds, and locating improved services and investments in areas with a high concentration of poor fishermen Total cost $41 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$34 million A second sugar-rehabilitation project seeks to increase sugar production to 245.000 tons, concentrate the state-produced share of this production at two locales, thus achieving economies of scale, significantly improve management of factories and estates at the two locations, revitalize research and create an efficient and financially self-supporting public-sector sugar industry Suppliers' credits of S5.1 million are expected Total cost. $47 1 million
KENYA. IDA—$15 million Institution strengthening, together \\ ith measures aimed at reducing major livestock diseases and increasing production of milk, meat, hides, skins, and dairy heifers, is expected to benefit pastorahsts and smallholders who own 90 percent of the country's livestock Cofinancing is anticipated from IFAD ($8 2 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($5 million), and the UNDP ($800,000) Total cost: $70.5 million
MADAGASCAR. IDA—$10 million. The foreign-exchange costs of new agricultural investments will be covered and existing ventures rehabilitated and expanded Institutional strengthening of the National Rural Development Bank is included. Total cost $19.3 million.
MALAYSIA IBRD—S55 million Complementing the first Bank-assisted project for the same purpose and extending over a further 210,000 hectares worked by 30.000 smallholders, this project will support the government's ongoing program of flood control and drainage in the valuable farmlands in southwest Johor state Total cost $148.3 million
MALAYSIA IBRD—$9 million Forestry research and development will be improved and reoriented by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Forestry Research Institute of Malaysia's capacity to carry out an expanded program in ecology, national forest management, plantation forestry, timber processing, and economic and policy issues Technical assistance is included Total cost, $37 3 million
MEXICO IBRD—$400 million. A ninth agricultural-credit project will continue to finance agricultural credit to improve the sector's productivity while, at the same time, it will support further reductions in interest-rate subsidies to farmers Total cost: $1,000 million.
MEXICO- IBRD—$20 million The quality and cost effectiveness of extension services will be raised through the systematic introduction of an extension methodology
that includes the fundamental features of the training-and-visit system. Total cost: $73.8 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$40 million Agricultural production and farmers' incomes are to increase through the continuing rehabilitation and improvement of the existing irrigation system, while, at the same time, incorporating lessons learned under Credit 8I2-NEP, approved in 1978. Total cost: $49.9 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$19.1 million. Some 20.000 farm families are to benefit from the second phase of a rural-development project in the central development region of Nepal that includes consolidation of previous investments, further improvements to the agricultural-production base and the socioeconomic infrastructure, expansion of forestry plantations and soil-conservation programs, and development of effective local-level planning. Total cost $23.5 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$81 million A second livestock-development project will support the development of cattle and goats, and to a small extent, sheep and poultry, thereby increasing the incomes of some 30,000 farm families Total cost: $128 million.
NIGERIA IBRD—$71 million. A second forestry project has been designed to strengthen the structural base of the sector through improved policies, revenue-collection systems, training and research; stabilize soil conditions in threatened areas and improve the supply of fuelwood, poles, and fodder; and increase the supply of industrial woods by improving the management of existing high-priority plantations and by establishing new plantations. Total cost: $110.7 million.
NIGERIA. IBRD—$25 million. The efforts of the Borno state government to provide improved services to the rural population in the southern third of the state will be supported through improvements to the supply of agricultural inputs, strengthening of extension services, development of small-scale irrigation, opening up of all-season farm-access tracks, and provision of materials and skilled artisans to line hand-dug wells. Total cost. $39.3 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$42.1 million. The strengthening and reorganization of the extension services in Punjab and Smd will be completed by extending the trammg-and-visit system of agricultural extension to the remaining thirty-one districts not covered in earlier projects, while, simultaneously, consolidating gams made, and strengthening the adaptive-research system m, the two provinces. Total cost' S58 4 million.
RWANDA: IDA—$14.1 million Building on lessons learned and experienced gamed in an earlier project, this second integrated forestry project will support the implementation of new national policy measures for forest protection and the promotion of agroforestry. Total cost. $20.1 million
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE' IDA—$7.9 million. Two cocoa plantations will be rehabilitated, incentives provided to workers, and support services to the agriculture sector improved so as to assist the government in its efforts to achieve economic recovery through increased cocoa production and long-term development of the agriculture sector as a whole. Cofinancing is expected from BADEA (S6 million). IFAD ($1.9 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($1 1 million), the CCCE ($1 million), USAID and Portugal ($900,000). the WFP ($600,000), and the FAC and the AFVP (S300.000) Total cost: $21.8 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$13.4 million. Pilot field trials started in 1981 will be continued to develop an improved ramfed agricultural technology for the country's semiand zones. Cofmancmg ($100,000) is anticipated from the WFP Total cost: $15 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$12 7 million. The expansion and improvement of the extension service established under an earlier credit will be supported, research planning and coordination between research agencies improved, research-extension linkages strengthened, and the capacity of the country's research system to identify farmers" production constraints and to find solutions through adaptive research strengthened. Cofinancing ($10.4 million) is anticipated from the ADF Total cost: $26 7 million
SRI LANKA: IDA—$18 6 million Increased agricultural production is expected through the development of better crop varieties and improvements in husbandry practices and farming systems. Cofinancing ($800,000) is anticipated from the GTZ. Total cost $26.5 million.
TOGO: IDA—$17.9 million. Coffee and cocoa production are to increase through improving the productivity of investments made under the first and second coffee-cocoa development projects and by planting in new areas. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($5.7 million) and the FAC ($2.9 million). Total cost: $33 2 million.
TOGO- IDA—$9 7 million Existing extension services will be strengthened, and the experience acquired in one year of pilot testing of the principles of the traming-and-visit system built upon. Technical assistance
to the Ministry of Rural Development is included Total cost: SI2.6 million. TUNISIA IBRD—$150 million Within the framework of a general macroeconomic restructuring program, support will be provided for the first phase of implementation of the government's program of agricultural-sector reforms, whose main goals are to maintain the growth rate in agriculture, within the overall macroeconomic constraints on public resources, through improvements in the price and incentive framework, reorientation of the public-investment program in agriculture, strengthening of agricultural-support services, improved management of natural resources, and increased institutional capacity.
UGANDA: IDA—$13 million. The management of the country's forest resources will be improved so as to meet needs for timber, fuelwood. and other forest products on a long-term, sustainable basis. At the same time, protected forests will be enlarged in area, and management of them improved. Cofinancing is expected from DANIDA ($7 5 million), the EEC ($7 million), the UNDP ($2 2 million), and CARE (S200.000) Total cost: $33.3 million
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC. IDA—S12 3 million. About 670,000 people in the southern region of the country will benefit through a project designed to increase agricultural productivity and farmer incomes by providing improved agricultural services, including operation and maintenance of agricultural infrastructure, improved utilization of land and water resources, special assistance to women farmers, and improved services for rural women to raise the health and nutrition standards of rural families Cofinancing is anticipated from the SDC ($5.8 million) and IFAD ($2.5 million) Total cost $28.5 million.
ZAIRE IDA—$4.4 million Working through local nongovernmental organizations, this project will increase production of maize, beans, cassava, and groundnuts to the south Shaba mining area. In addition, a framework of sustainable support services for agriculture, not dependent on government, will be developed Cofinancing ($7.6 million) is being provided by IFAD Total cost: $13.3 million.
ZAMBIA- IDA—$20 4 million. A second coffee project aims at helping the government in creating a suitable institutional framework for the establishment of coffee production and in building up national expertise in management.
production, processing, and marketing of coffee for the export market Total cost $34 9 million. ZAMBIA. IDA—SI3 million The productivity of the country's agriculture sector will be raised by improving research-and-extension services to farmers, particularly smallholders A large technical-assistance component is included to strengthen project-implementation capability Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($12 6 million) and NORAD ($7.2 million) Total cost $38 8 million
Development Finance Companies
ARGENTINA: IBRD—SI25 million Credit will be provided to encourage modernization and increases in production and productivity of small and medium-scale industries (SMls), enabling them to become more competitive, as well as to foster employment and help develop SMIs outside major urban areas Technical assistance for SMIs and the institutions assisting them is included Total cost: $250 million
BRAZIL: IBRD—S50 million Public health and the environment will be improved by financing subprojects to reduce industrial pollution within the state of Sao Paulo (notably Cubatao) and by strengthening the state's environmental-protection agency Technical assistance will also be provided to the federal environmental agency and to other state environmental-protection agencies Total cost: $100 million
CHINA- IBRD—$250 million: IDA—$50 million. A fourth industrial-credit project seeks to upgrade productivity and efficiency of small and medium-scale industries through imports of modern technology Further institutional strengthening of the China Investment Bank is included.
JAMAICA IBRD—$40 million The government's program of structural adjustment will be supported through a sector operation that aims at improving the performance of exports and industry, as well as a strengthening of the financial sector
MADAGASCAR- IDA—$16 million: African Facility—$67 million Policy reforms, designed to increase the efficiency and productivity of the economy, reallocate resources to the more productive sectors, reorient these sectors towards exports and a greater use of domestic inputs, and stimulate the revival of the efficient segments of the industrial sector, will be supported. Special joint financing is expected from Japan ($13 8 million) and Saudi Arabia ($3.2 million)
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$25 million. The deepening of the government's program of
industrial-policy reform, aimed at providing additional support to efficient export-oriented industries, white gradually phasing out the incentives offered to inefficient import-substitution enterprises, will be supported MEXICO: IBRD—$500 million. The government's long-term objective of gradually opening up the Mexican economy, through implementation of trade reforms as a means of improving domestic efficiency and international competitiveness, will be supported
MEXICO: IBRD—$250 million. A second Bank project to support the development of the country's exports has as its objectives the increase and diversification of exports other than oil through support for reforms of the policy framework for export development, assistance in the area of institutional development, and provision of finance to exporters.
MEXICO- IBRD-—$150 million Finance will be provided for fixed investment and working capital, and. as a pilot program for the restructuring of overleveraged companies, equity and quasi-equity investments. Technical assistance to the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial is included. Total cost $300 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$70 million. By providing eight lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Eeonomique (BNDE) and seven commercial banks, the country's industrial export base will be further developed, the overall export framework improved, jobs created in efficient exporting industries, and the country's export performance and balance-of-payment situation improved. Technical assistance to the BNDE is included.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$452 million. Support will be provided the government's efforts to reform trade and export policies with the objective of increasing domestic output and restructuring the productive base of the economy in order to reduce its dependence on the oil sector and on imports.
TONGA. IDA—$2 million. The Tonga Development Bank will be provided with adequate long-term resources to meet investment demand, particularly m the agriculture, industry, and tourism sectors. Cofinancing ($1 2 million) is expected from the AsDB. Total cost: $4 8 million
TUNISIA: IBRD—$150 million. The first phase of implementation of the government's program of industrial and trade-policy reforms, which focuses on measures to limit growth of domestic demand, stimulate
growth of nontraditional exports, and improve the allocation and use of scarce economic resources, will be supported.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$90 million. Energy efficiency in industry will be promoted by reducing energy consumption through conservation and by reducing the cost of energy consumed through the substitution of lower-cost energy sources. Institution-building assistance is included.
ZAIRE: IDA—$25 million. Through a package of credit, technical assistance, and training, all tailored to the needs of small-scale enterprises (SSEs), new employment opportunities will be generated, the development of entrepreneurs nurtured, participation increased of financial intermediaries in the development of SSEs, and capacity developed to prepare, appraise, and supervise SSE projects. Total cost: $37.3 million.
Education
BRAZIL: IBRD—$74.5 million. The responsiveness of skills training to rapidly changing technologies will be improved by strengthening the institutional capacity of the National Vocational Training System and by improving and expanding training. Total cost: $166.4 million.
CARIBBEAN REGION: IDA—$6 million. Under this regional project, the quality and quantity of trained manpower in the Eastern Caribbean states of Dominica, Grenada. St. Kitts and Nevis. St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines will be improved through upgrading facilities and the quality of instruction, expanding training capacity, and enhancing sector management. Cofinancing is being provided by the CDB ($2.8 million) and the OPEC Special Fund ($2.5 million). Total cost: $13 million.
COMOROS: IDA—$7.9 million. Through a program of institutional development, qualitative improvements, and manpower development, the government will be aided m increasing the efficiency of the education system and its relevance to socioeconomic needs. Total cost: $8.8 million.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA: IDA—$5.1 million. The Ministry of Education will be assisted in its efforts to restructure basic education by implementing new curricula, increasing the availability and use of teaching materials, improving classroom-management practices, creating new teaching positions, training managers and teachers, and expanding physical facilities in rural areas. Cofinancing ($1 million) is anticipated from the UNDP/ Unesco. Total cost. S6.4 million.
GHANA IDA—$34.5 million. A sectorwide program of educational reform—aimed at improving pedagogic effectiveness and recasting the financing of education so that public and private expenditures are cost effective and affordable within modest growth expectations—will be supported Cofinancing ($12.8 million) is being arranged, and further cofinancing is being sought Total cost $463.9 million.
HONDURAS. IBRD—$4.4 million. Efforts to improve the quality and effectiveness of education will be supported through the alle\iation of key constraints to the capacity of the Ministry of Public Education to plan and carry out effectively needed investments and administer the educational system. Total cost: $6 9 million.
MALAWI- IDA—$27 million. By financing a three-year time slice of the country's education-investment program (1985-95), access to primary and secondary education will be increased, the quality of primary and secondary education will be improved, and sector management will be upgraded through measures to strengthen the Ministry of Education and Culture. Technical assistance is included. Cofinancing ($2 6 million) is expected from the ODA. Total cost: $34 million.
MOROCCO- IBRD—$22.3 million A second vocational-training project seeks to improve the quality of vocational training and reduce its costs through improvements to instructor training, upgrading of training programs, implementation of measures to enhance cost recovery, improvements m management efficiency, and technical assistance and studies Total cost $28 million
NIGER: IDA—$18.4 million Government strategy to develop primary education through more efficient and effective utilization of education resources will be supported through a project designed to reduce unit recurrent costs and improve quality and relevance m primary education, reduce unit capital costs and improve access to primary education, and promote more cost-effective use of education resources Cofinancing will be provided by Norway ($4.7 million) and the KfW ($1 7 million) Total cost: $26 2 million
OMAN IBRD—$13.8 million The development and modernization of the country's school system will be assisted, thus enabling it to prepare Omanis for participation in the modern-sector labor force. Key services m the Ministry of Education and Youth will be strengthened, teachers trained and upgraded, and access to
education, particularly for girls and for children of the poor in rural areas, increased. Total cost $27.7 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$145 million. This third primary-education project is the first in a series of major operations planned for the education sector that will address systemic issues through policy reform, institutional and qualitative improvements, as well support for the expansion of the system Cofinancing is anticipated from CIDA ($11.7 million) and the EEC ($10 million) Total cost $207.9 million.
SENEGAL. IDA—$12 million. The qualitative and quantitative development of primary education will be aided through support for a phased sectoral-adjustment program; development of the Ministry of National Education's capacity to plan, budget, and control costs: and improvements in teacher effectiveness, primary-school inspector efficiency, and relevance and availability of textbooks. Cofinancing ($5 33 million) has been obtained from the AfDB Total cost S19.6 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$58 5 million. In order to improve the supply of well-trained labor for manufacturing industries and employment opportunities for those with limited education and training, as many as 60,000 additional workers with industrial and service skills will be trained annually Total cost. $71.1 million
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC- IDA—$10 4 million The quality of teacher training will be improved and capacity expanded, thus leading to improved education quality and major long-term recurrent cost savings as a program begins to replace foreign teachers with Yemenis by the end of the century in the primary-school teaching force Cofinancing ($900,000) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $20 1 million
Energy
ARGENTINA. IBRD—$276 million Funds will be provided to help reduce distribution losses and to improve the operational efficiency of Servicios Electncos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA); to ensure adequate energy supply in the Buenos Aires area, and to support the rehabilitation of SEGBA's finances Total cost $778 2 million
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$14 million Through the financing of four distribution studies, a metering program, and training, the government will be aided m implementing measures to improve the conditions of electricity distribution by providing beneficiaries with modern equipment and
methodologies to improve their distribution, planning, and design capability. Total cost: S21.5 million
BANGLADESH. IDA—S47 million. Through financing of measures aimed at refinery-modification and LPG recover}', storage, and distribution, help will be provided in minimizing the cost of petroleum imports and rationalizing the supply of petroleum products. Total cost: $81.3 million.
BELIZE: IBRD—$7 5 million The Belize Electricity Board's 1987-93 investment program—financing of generating units; expansion and improvements to distribution lines; the purchase of equipment, tools, and vehicles, training; and technical assistance— will be covered. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CDB ($3.2 million) and the CDC ($1.5 million) Total cost: $14.2 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—S6 8 million. The power system of Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A (ENDE) will be rehabilitated by overhauling defective generation units, carrying out delayed maintenance, eliminating transmission bottlenecks, and increasing ENDE's operational efficiency Sector regulation, planning, and institutional framework will also be improved. Total cost $10.7 million
CHILE- IBRD—$95 million. Construction of the 500-mW Pehuenche hydroelectric power plant will help meet the country's growing demand for electricity. A training program for staff of the executing agency will strengthen their capacity to manage the plant, while a national environmental program will develop professional expertise for. and awareness within Chile of the importance of, environmental management. Suppliers' credits ($68.8 million) are anticipated. Total cost: $799.3 million.
CHILE: IBRD—$21.5 million. Construction of sixty kilometers of transmission lines and four substations will provide expanded transmission capacity for the power generated in new power plants in the south, including the Pehuenche project (see project summary above), to the load centers in Santiago and the north Total cost: S38.7 million.
CHINA IBRD—$190 million. The severe power shortage at a major load center in the east China power grid will be addressed, development of a distribution-network master plan for the city of Shanghai supported, efficiency promoted in the Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau through a staff-training program, and financial reform encouraged through adoption of modern financial-performance targets Total cost: $351.4 million.
CHINA IBRD—$140 million. Economic growth in east China and Fujian province will be supported through development of a major hydroelectric site on the Mm river. Total cost: $1,087 8 million.
DOMINICA- IDA—$3 million. Assistance will be provided to help finance the 1988-93 investment program of Dominica Electricity Services Limited. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($3.9 million), the CDB ($3 8 million), the CCCE ($3 million), and CIDA ($1.6 million). Total cost: $18 3 million
ECUADOR: IBRD—$80 million. Oil production and export flows will be restored in the wake of earthquakes in March 1987 that damaged major sections of the Trans-Ecuadorian crude-oil and LPG pipelines In addition, capacity to deal with the crisis and its aftermath will be enhanced, as will the government's preparedness to deal with future national emergencies. Total cost: $101.9 million.
GHANA: IDA—SI5 million. The government's policy objectives to increase the reliability and reduce the cost of petroleum-products supplies in the country, including remote agricultural areas, will be supported by improving bulk procurement and distribution systems, rehabilitating refining and distribution facilities, and by establishing a new and economical supply route via Volta lake to the northern regions, thus forming the backbone of a transport system that could also supply petroleum products to neighboring countries Cofinancing is anticipated from the KfW ($8.7 million) and the EIB ($6.5 million). Total cost $36 3 million.
GHANA. IDA—$6.3 million. Assistance m providing a reliable and economic electricity supply will come through measures to reinforce the southern grid, extend the transmission system to economically important northern areas, and reinforce and expand distribution facilities in these areas Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($38 3 million), the CDC/EIB (S36.7 million), CIDA ($7.5 million), and the Exim Bank of Japan (S5 million). Total cost. $147.9 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$485 million. Through a program of construction, rehabilitation, and provision of consulting services, generating capacity will be augmented and chronic power shortages alleviated in Delhi and the northern region: the capacity and reliability of power transmission will be improved and system losses reduced in the Delhi area; more efficient and fuller use will be made at the power station at Badarpur; and environmental improvements at that power
station will reduce pollution. Total cost' $1,542.1 million
INDIA: IBRD—$375 million. Power-generation capacity will be increased, thus alleviating power shortages in the eastern region; the technology of "tower boilers," suited to the abrasive high-ash coals prevalent in India, will be introduced; and the operational performance of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTCP) improved by providing on-line communications between NTPC's power stations and its headquarters in Delhi Total cost. $1,375.3 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$340 million. The supply of thermal coal to the power and industrial sectors and coking coal to the steel sector will be increased, and the quality of coal available to consumers improved. Institutional development of Coal India Limited is included. Total cost $643 million
INDIA. IBRD—$330 million. Power shortages in the southern region will be alleviated by exploiting indigenous hydro resources, renovations will be undertaken of the Sharavati (Karnataka state) hydropower station, and transmission capacity augmented, thus reducing power losses. Technical assistance to the Karnataka Power Corporation and Karnataka Electricity Board is included Cofinancing ($27 million) is expected from the KFAED Total cost: $947 2 million.
INDIA. IBRD—$140 million. Production from the partially depleted Assam oil fields will be increased and the utilization of associated natural gas improved, efficient exploration programs in Oil India Limited's (OIL) new petroleum-exploration license areas implemented, and institution-building assistance furnished to OIL. •Total cost: $584 million
INDONESIA. IBRD—$226 million Measures to help promote productive activities and to improve the welfare of the population through the provision of electric power, and also, to improve the economic and technical efficiency of energy supply and use will be financed Cofinancing is expected from the Federal Republic of Germany ($14.2 million). Total cost. $386.2 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$70 million. This project, part of the Jordan Electricity Authority's high-priority 1988-95 investment plan, includes the expansion of the existing seawater-cooled steam power plant at Aqaba, the upgrading of substations at Aqaba and Amman-South to 400 kv, and consulting services associated with the expansion and upgrading components.
Cofinancmg is anticipated from the AFESD ($24 million), the KFAED ($24 million), the IsDB ($14 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($5 million), and suppliers' credits ($48 5 million). Total cost: $257.8 million
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$25.8 million. Infrastructure for electricity distribution will be created in three southern provinces; together with other international financial institutions, further economic development will be supported by meeting demand for power from export and domestic markets, electricity will be provided to households, schools, hospitals, cooperatives, etc , to improve the quality of life; and institutions functioning in the power subsector will be strengthened. Total cost $32.6 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$25 million. The highest-priority components of the Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation's investment plan for 1987-92 will be financed, as will equipment and technical assistance for strengthening energy-sector planning capability and developing economically accessible energy resources Cofinancing is anticipated from the EIB ($14 4 million) and BADEA ($5.4 million). Total cosf $59 8 million
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$100 million The National Electricity Board of the States of Malaysia will be assisted m its efforts to maximize the operational efficiency of its existing facilities and optimize its use of the country's energy resources. Training and technical assistance are included Total cost: $180.5 million
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—S20 million The supply and distribution of electricity and petroleum products to urban areas, where most of the country's trade and processing activities are earned out. will be improved Energy agencies will also be assisted in preparing sound, long-term development plans. Cofinancing ($5 million) is anticipated from Norway. Total cost. $31 8 million
PAKISTAN. IBRD—$70 million. The efficiency of existing power stations will be improved, and about 200 mW of additional generating capacity, needed to minimize anticipated shortfalls in electricity, will be made available. Cofinancing is expected from USAID ($15 million) and the ODA ($5 3 million) Total cost $162 8 million.
PAKISTAN IBRD—$21 million Refinery energy consumption will be reduced, crude processing capacity increased, National Refinery Limited's refinery output mix modified to better match demand, production optimization and control systems
strengthened, and staff trained. Total cost: $51 million.
SRI LANKA. IDA—$52 million. Through financing a four-year slice of the Ceylon Electricity Board's distribution-rehabilitation and expansion program, the reliability and quality of power supply will be improved, losses reduced to more reasonable levels, and forecast demand for electricity met. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($13 million). Total cost: $108.1 million
SUDAN: IDA—$38.0 million. Additional generation capacity to meet projected demand in the interconnected Blue Nile and eastern grids by 1991 and technical assistance for institutional improvements in the National Electricity Corporation will be provided. Cofinancing ($35.9 million) is anticipated from the ADF. Total cost: $103 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$325 million. The efficiency of energy production in the public sector will be improved, and government efforts to facilitate private-sector participation in the sector assisted.
TURKEY: IBRD—$132 million. Financing will be provided for the 283.5-mW Sir hydropower station on the Ceyhan river, thus supporting efforts to develop the country's indigenous energy resources and bring about greater involvement of the private sector in energy development. Total cost: $259.1 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$24.4 million.
Modifications to the refinery facilities of the Administration Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol, y Portland (ANCAP) will be financed, and ANCAP's m-house capabilities in the area of petroleum procurement, operations planning and control, and accounting/budget systems will be enhanced. Total cost: $31 7 million
WESTERN SAMOA: IDA—$3 million. The government's policy to reduce dependence on imported fuel will be supported through help in developing the country's hydro resources to replace high-cost diesel-generated energy. Cofinancing is expected from the AsDB ($5.4 million), the EEC ($4.7 million), and the EIB ($2.5 million). Total cost: $17.2 million
Industry
CHINA: IBRD—$100 million. Funds will be onlent to the Shanghai Machine Tool Works and the Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation to help rehabilitate and modernize plants and research institutions owned by the two firms, import appropriate technology, establish a modern management structure and system, and develop and implement a comprehensive
training program. Total cost. $223 1 million.
CHINA. IBRD—$97.4 million. Phosphate fertilizer-production capacity will be established at a low-grade nitrogenous fertilizer plant in Yunnan province, nitrogenous fertilizer capacity at four medium-sized operating plants will be converted from low-grade to high-grade product, and mstitution-buildmg support provided to the Ministry of Chemical Industry. Total cost: $184 million.
GUYANA IDA—$7 million. The medium-term to long-term economic and financial viability of the bauxite industry will be assessed, and, as appropriate, assistance will be provided in the preparation of a full-scale rehabilitation project. Total cost: $8 million.
HUNGARY IBRD—$150 million. The restructuring of Hungarian industry, to enable it to achieve international competitiveness and increase the potential for exports to convertible-currency markets, will be supported. Total cost. $406.8 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$12 million. An increase in the efficiency of existing potash-production facilities will be supported, and a research-and-development program for assessing the ultimate potential of these facilities initiated Technical assistance to the Arab Potash Company is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the IsDB ($8 million) Total cost: $26.7 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$48 million. This first Bank project to support, exclusively, industrial-technology development in Mexico aims at reviewing instruments and related measures designed to encourage industrial-technology development, strengthening technology infrastructure and metrology services, and expanding and improving the specialized financing program of the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial. Total cost: $96.8 million
TUNISIA: IBRD—$4 million. Help will be provided to the Agency for Energy Conservation to develop an effective institutional and policy framework for a national energy-conservation program. In addition, funds will be provided for the development and implementation of specific, short-term actions for twenty-eight selected enterprises to demonstrate the benefits of energy conservation to other users in the same sectors Total cost $6.3 million.
Nonproject
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$500 million. The first phase of the government's trade-policy reform program, which supports the
adoption of an outward-looking strategy focused on improving export competitiveness and increasing the efficiency of Argentine industry, will be supported
BANGLADESH- IDA—$190 million. Foreign exchange will be pro\ ided to finance general imports in support of the government's major industrial-policy reform program, designed to achieve high rates of industrial growth to meet domestic demand, expand exports, and create employment outside agriculture.
BENIN IDA—$15 million. The government will be assisted in rehabilitating its public-enterprise sector through policy reform at the sectoral level and through a program of rehabilitation and studies at the enterprise level. Cofinancing is anticipated from the SDC ($8 4 million) Total cost: $3! 5 million
BOLIVIA IDA—$47.1 million. Quick-disbursing financing will be provided for priority imports to the energy, transport, and agriculture sectors and for working capital in industry so as to maintain the momentum of reform at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels and provide critically needed financing to restore economic growth.
BOLIVIA IDA—$10 million About 20,000 manyears of employment will be created through support for the government's Emergency Social Fund (ESF). designed to address the social consequences of the economic crisis afflicting Bolivia since 1980 A monitoring/studies program will be set up to assess the program's effect and help the government formulate medium-term to long-term policies for poverty alleviation, health care, and rural education Management assistance to the ESF is included. Cofinancing of more than $16 million is anticipated, and commitments—some are subject to restrictions—have been received from Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Spam, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, USAID, the IDB. and the UNDP Total cost $50.3 million
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA— $14 million; African Facility—$16 million Support will be extended in support of the government's comprehensive adjustment program, whose objective is to realize the medium-term goal of a self-sustained 4 percent annual real gross domestic product growth rate through an agricultural-led growth strategy, retrenchment of the public sector, and mobilization of private and public resources to increase domestic savings.
CHILE: IBRD—$250 million. Support will be extended to the government's structural-
adjustment program, designed to accelerate exports and domestic savings so as to permit a recovery of economic growth and employment
DOMINICA- IDA—$3 million. Support will be provided the government's structural-adjustment program, which aims at raising the sustainable growth rate and strengthening fiscal and balance-of-payments performance by improving the incentive framework for investments and exports and enhancing the efficiency of government operations. Parallel financing ($2 million) is anticipated from the CDB.
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$5 million, African Facility—$11 5 million The first phase (1985-87) of the government's medium-term economic-recovery program—consisting of a set of policies and reforms aimed at the elimination of exchange-rate and pricing distortions and retrenchment of the public sector—will be supported Special joint financing is expected from the United Kingdom ($4 5 million), cofinancmg ($9 million) is also anticipated from the AfDF.
GHANA IDA—$34 million; African Facility— $81 million The government's structural-adjustment program, which aims to establish an incentive framework that stimulates growth, encourages savings and investment, and strengthens the balance of payments, and to improve resource use. particularly in the public sector, will be supported.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$10 million; African Facility—$5 million Funds will be provided to support the government's economic-recovery program and allow economic activity to expand while current and future reform measures are implemented. Special joint financing is expected from Switzerland ($5.2 million) and Saudi Arabia ($3.2 million).
HAITI: IDA—$40 million General imports will be financed and support provided to the government's economic-recovery program, designed to reform public finances and economic policies and stimulate economic growth.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$300 million. Efforts by the government to respond appropriately to the sharp fall in oil prices through reducing dependency on oil while regaining stability in the balance of payments and government budget will be supported.
JAMAICA IBRD—$20 million. The government will be assisted in its effort to address the monitoring and control of public enterprises, improvements in the operating balances of targeted public enterprises, elimination of intergovernmental arrears, and
a reduction in the size and scope of the public sector.
MALAWI. African Facility—$10 million. Supplementary finance will be provided in support of the third structural-adjustment operation, approved m December 1985 Special joint financing is expected from Japan ($17.7 million), the United Kingdom ($7.5 million), and the Federal Republic of Germany ($5 million).
MAURITANIA: IDA—$15 million; African Facility—$27.4 million. The government's comprehensive adjustment program for addressing the key macroeconomic and sectoral issues facing the country over the medium term will be supported Special joint financing is anticipated from Saudi Arabia ($4.8 million) and the Federal Republic of Germany ($2 8 million).
MOROCCO- IBRD—$240 million. The first phase of a program to rationalize Moroccan public enterprises, designed to improve their efficiency, will be supported, as will the implementation of restructuring programs in six major public enterprises operating m the power, water, railways, and petroleum-refining and distribution sectors.
NEPAL. IDA—$50 million. The government's program of structural adjustment and stabilization, designed to increase investment and economic growth by reducing controls, accelerating efficient use of domestic and foreign resources, and promoting exports, will be supported.
NIGER: IDA—$60 million: African Facility— $20 million. The extension of the government's structural-adjustment program, aimed at deepening the reforms in the public-enterprise sector, as well as those in the area of public-resources management, will be supported
PANAMA: IBRD—SI00 million. A second structural-adjustment loan continues to support the government's program of creating a more open, export-oriented economy in which the efficiency of the productive sectors is enhanced through exposure to greater international competition and through refocused public services.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—S300 million. Support for the government's economic-recovery efforts, which includes programs of tax reform, trade-policy rationalization, public-investment program restructuring, and rationalization of government financial institutions, will be provided.
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: IDA—$4 million; African Facility—$3 million. Support will be provided to the government's structural-adjustment program that includes
a major exchange-rate devaluation, monetary and fiscal policies, including the restructuring of the public-investment program and of loss-making public enterprises; price liberalization, and an incentive package to facilitate private initiative
SENEGAL: IDA—$45 million; African Facility—$40 million. The second phase of the country's medium-term adjustment program, aimed at establishing the conditions for self-sustained growth by progressively withdrawing the state from direct involvement in production and promoting private-sector initiative and investment, as well as promoting greater efficiency of public-resource management, will be supported. Special joint financing ($8 million) is expected.
TANZANIA: IDA—$50 million; African Facility—$46 2 million. The government's economic-recovery program, which comprises a comprehensive process of policy reform aimed at reversing the protracted deterioration of the country's economy, will be supported. Special joint financing is anticipated from the Federal Republic of Germany ($17 3 million). Switzerland ($9.2 million), and the United Kingdom ($7.3 million).
URUGUAY: IBRD—$80 million. Support will be provided to the government's structural-adjustment and recovery program, designed to increase exports and promote domestic savings so as to permit a recovery of economic growth and reduce unemployment while strengthening the country's creditworthiness.
ZAIRE: IDA—$55 million. African Facility— $94.3 million. The government's comprehensive structural-adjustment program, designed to address the major structural constraints in the economy, lay the basis for sustained growth, and improve the balance-of-payments position over the medium term, will be supported. Special joint financing is anticipated from Japan ($15 7 million).
Population, Health, and Nutrition
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$5.6 million. A program to strengthen health-sector management, financing, and support systems will be financed, as will a program of investments to strengthen national health care. Cofinancing is anticipated from Italy ($9.6 million), the Netherlands ($2 million), China ($1 million), the ODA ($900,000), and the UNCDF ($400,000). Total cost. $20.8 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU. IDA—$4,2 million. The
institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Public Health m planning, management, and finance will be improved, and the delivery of health and family-planning services, especially at the periphery, strengthened. Total cost $4 4 million. JAMAICA. IBRD—$10 million The government will be assisted in its efforts to achieve the objectives of its national population policy—fertility reduction and the integration of population concerns m the public and private-sector development programs. In addition, a more cost-effective health-services delivery system will be developed Cofinancing ($650,000) is expected from UNFPA Total cost. SI2.4 million
MALAWI: IDA—SI 1 million A second family-health project will directly benefit about 2 million people throughout the country through strengthening and expanding primary health care and family-health programs and through increased accessibility of child-spacing services Cofinancing is expected from the KfW ($4.1 million), the EDF ($3.5 million). UNICEF ($2 6 million), the Netherlands ($900,000), and UNFPA ($900,000) Total cost. $24 9 million
OMAN: IBRD—$13 3 million Mortality and morbidity, particularly of the 300,000 inhabitants of the predominantly rural Batmah region, will be reduced; the capacity of the Ministry of Health to plan and manage the health sector will be strengthened, and the way prepared for the countrywide implementation of more efficient service delivery Total cost' $30.6 million
ZIMBABWE IBRD—$10 million. About 705,000 mothers and children in eight districts and 380,000 mothers in urban areas will benefit from a family-health project that will provide improved maternal and child-health and family-planning services Institution-building and training measures are included. Cofinancmg is being provided by Norway ($10 million), the Netherlands ($1.8 million), the ODA ($1 8 million), and the GTZ ($1 3 million) Total cost: $52.6 million
Small-scale Enterprises
INDONESIA. IBRD—$101 5 million. The efforts of the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to develop its village subbranch system into a financially viable network to provide nonsubsidized credit to small borrowers, to mobilize savings, and to provide other banking services will be supported. Technical
assistance and institutional support to the BRI are included. Cofinancmg ($10 million) is being provided by USAID Total cost-Si,125.9 million
KENYA IDA—S6 million Through a $5 million line of credit to the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) and a program of technical assistance, the government's program of providing financial assistance, training, and management counselling through the KIE to small-scale industries will be supported. Cofinancmg is anticipated from NORAD and the KfW ($3 9 million total) Total cost $16 6 million.
MALAYSIA. IBRD—$65 million Long-term capital will be provided to two development finance companies—the Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad and the Sabah Development Bank Berhad—to help finance medium-scale and large-scale subprojects essentially in the private sector
MEXICO. IBRD—$185 million. A fourth small and medium-scale industry (SMI) project seeks to improve the quality and range of financial and technical-assistance sen ices to SMIs in order to assist them in responding to the increased competitive pressure resulting from the government's trade-liberalization measures and to increase their financial viability. Total cost $350 3 million
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$54 million By providing credit and technical assistance, a third small-scale industries (SSI) project has been designed to further support the go\ernment's strategy for SSI development Total cost $180 million.
ZAMBIA: IDA—$10 million Funds for the third Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) project will help finance the foreign-exchange portion of the long-term capital-investment requirements of productive-sector subprojects approved by the DBZ, expansion or restructuring of existing enterprises, and, to a lesser degree, new investment subprojects. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancmg is anticipated from the EIB ($7.7 million), the IFC ($5.8 million), and the FMO ($4.8 million). Total cost: $72.1 million
Technical Assistance
BOLIVIA: IDA—$11 5 million Support will be provided to the newly established Bolivia Public Financial Management Operation, which aims to improve efficiency of resource mobilization and use by implementing programs to improve organization, staff, and systems in three key areas: public financial administration and controls, tax
administration, and the banking system Parallel financing is anticipated from USAID ($3.1 million) and the IDB/UNDP ($1 6 million) Total cost: $24.6 million.
BURUNDI- IDA—S7.5 million Assistance will be provided to launch the operations of the National Service in Charge of Public Enterprises, with particular emphasis on policy studies and application of criteria for government involvement in the public-enterprise (PE) sector, assessment and monitoring of PE-sector performance, improvement of the institutional framework for PEs, staff and management training, and studies for the rehabilitation of particular PEs Total cost: $8.3 million.
CHINA. IDA—$20.7 million Sector studies, required as background for the preparation of the eighth five-year plan, will be undertaken, and mtersectoral, innovative, or experimental technical-assistance activities financed Total cost: $26 9 million
CONGO. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$4 million. A second technical-assistance project seeks to help the government design and implement policy measures aimed at promoting growth in sectors other than oil and at formulating a more effective petroleum-development strategy following the steep decline in oil prices. Total cost. $4.7 million.
GHANA: IDA—-$10 8 million Technical assistance will be provided to help facilitate implementation of the government's structural-adjustment program. Cofinancing ($1.1 million) is being provided by the ODA. Total cost: $14.1 million.
HAITI. IDA—$3 million Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the government's capacity to implement its economic-recovery program, develop a strategy to deal with the country's deteriorating environment, and to assist manufacturing firms affected by ongoing trade reforms. Total cost. $3.5 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$7 million A third
technical-assistance project will support the government in formulating and implementing programs of structural and policy reform in key sectors and subsectors of the economy and in maintaining an environment of sound macroeconomic management. Total cost: $8.5 million.
THE PHILIPPINES. IBRD—$10 million. Technical assistance will be provided to help the government undertake required financial restructuring of public-sector institutions. Total cost. $15 million
RWANDA. IDA—$7.4 million. Sector strategies will be prepared, and a portfolio of
well-developed projects ready for submission to financing sources produced. In addition, training will be provided to improve local capabilities for preparation and appraisal of investment projects and for investment programming. Total cost- $8.3 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$9 million. Assistance will be provided to refine and implement policy reforms for the public-enterprise sector, improve national planning and financial management, and improve human-resource management through a pilot effort for the reform of the civil service that is targetted on the central personnel-management function and key economic-management agencies. Total cost: $11.7 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$1 million. The government will be provided with the analytical base for preparing specific action programs and with needed technical assistance to implement key elements of its structural-adjustment and reform program. Total cost: $1.3 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$12 million. Help will be provided to the government to implement its structural-adjustment program m the short term, and, at the same time, to initiate long-term efforts to build up its capability in planning and financial management. Total cost. $14 million.
Telecommunications
BURUNDI. IDA—$4.8 million Help in financing the rehabilitation and extension of the telecommunications network will be provided, as will institutional development and some basic assistance to the postal sector. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($10.5 million), the Netherlands ($3 9 million), and a Dutch commercial bank ($3 9 million) Total cost: $25.4 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$70 million. A time slice of Magya Posta's (MP's) 1987-91 development program for telecommunications, including rehabilitation of the local network, provision of local telephone lines, a doubling of the number of localities with subscriber trunk dialling, additional public call offices, expansion of the telex network, and improvements to MP's structure and management, will be financed Technical assistance is included Total cost: $833 1 million.
INDIA: IBRD—S345 million. A ninth telecommunications project will help meet the growing demand for telecommunications services and improve their quality through the expansion and upgrading of the telephone and telex networks in Bombay, Delhi, Madras, and Calcutta and the longdistance links between them. Cofinancing is
expected from the OECF ($60 million) and the UNDP ($2.5 million). Total cost: $2,050 million.
INDONESIA IBRD—$14.5 million Program-management consultants will be provided to the General Telephone Company (PERUMTEL) to assist it in planning and implementing its cable-network expansion program and in coordinating this program implementation with the rest of its investments. Other institution-building assistance to PERUMTEL is included. Total cost $17 9 million
MOROCCO IBRD—$125 million. This project, an integral but self-contained part of the investment program of Office National des Postes et Telecommunications du Maroc, aims at expansion, improvement, and modernization of the country's telecommunications network. Total cost: $674.5 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$100 million A fifth telecommunications project, encompassing the entire fiscal 1987-90 investment program of the Telegraph and Telephone Department (T&T), will help expand local, long distance, and international telephone and telex networks, while increasing the management, organizational, and implementation capacity of T&T. Cofinancing is expected from the KfW and German government export credits ($112 million), other export credits ($64.8 million), the AsDB ($73 million), the OECF ($12 million), and the UNDP ($3.5 million) Total cost' $817 2 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$23 million Key parts of the telecommunications network will be rehabilitated, and its capacity utilization maximized by removing bottlenecks and imbalances. Institutional development of the Tanzania Posts and Telecommunications Corporation is included. SIDA. Italy, and the AfDB are assisting the project with parallel financing of $11 million. $10 million, and S5 million, respectively. Total cost: $60 million
Transportation
ALGERIA: IBRD—$120 million. A fifth highway project has been designed to assist the government in concentrating its reduced resources on preservation of existing roads, m effectively implementing institutional changes, and in improving the financial viability and efficiency of road transport. Total cost. $287 million.
ARGENTINA IBRD—$50 million. This first Bank involvement in the country's port subsector will provide increased grain-export capacity for the medium term, while a proposed follow-up project would address
the long-term grain-export needs at the port of Bahia Blanca. Institution-buildmg assistance is included Total cost: $66 7 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$102 million. Costs of transporting passengers and goods by road will be reduced by restoring the priority road network in the northwest to maintainable condition and by strengthening the institutions concerned with road-transport infrastructure Cofinancing is anticipated from the OPEC Special Fund ($8 million), the ODA ($500,000), and other sources (possibly the UNDP), $5.3 million. Total cost. $157 6 million.
BENIN: IDA—$19.5 million. High-priority rehabilitation-and-mamtenance programs for ports and highways will be financed, as will a program of institutional development and strengthening. Cofinancing is anticipated from the EDF ($23 million), the ADF ($8.6 million), BOAD ($6.2 million), the IsDB ($4.6 million), the CCCE ($2 4 million), and the FAC ($1.4 million) Total cost: $70 5 million.
BRAZIL IBRD—$174 million. The efforts by Sao Paulo state to improve the condition of its road network over a four-year period will be supported, and the transport administration further developed so as to assure, in particular, that the state's dominant road-transport mode will function with increased efficiency Total cost' $405 7 million
BRAZIL: IBRD—$100 million. Support will be provided for the physical and financial rehabilitation of the Sao Paulo Railway Company (FEPASA), and conditions established for operating the railway on a commercial basis, thereby increasing transport efficiency in the mam corridors leading to Sao Paulo and to the port of Santos. Suppliers' credits ($13.5 million) are being sought. Total cost $285 million
CHAD: IDA—$20 million. This emergency operation m the road-transport sector will assist the Ministries of Public Works and Transport to rebuild their capacity to rehabilitate and maintain the country's high-pnonty network, address mstitution-buildmg objectives in the sector, resolve constraints on the efficiency and competitiveness of the road-transport industry, and complement other donors' activities in the sector. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($7.2 million) and the Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation ($1.3 million) Total cost: $29.8 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$25 million: IDA—$125 million. The government will be assisted in
meeting the road-transport demand in the Beijmg-Tianjin-Tanggu corridor, one of China's most industrial and congested areas, through construction of a 142-kilometer expressway. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the subsector, particularly in regard to methods of highway-network financing. Total cost: $275.8 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$180.3 million. A time slice of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) will be financed, the highway-management capabilities of MOPT strengthened, sector policies adjusted, and the transport budgetary process at the MOPT level improved Cofinancing ($102.3 million from an ongoing loan plus new funds) is expected from the IDB Total cost: $1,623 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$55 million. A transport-sector project aims at providing the policy framework required to ensure efficiency and effectiveness throughout the sector and supports a major rehabilitation effort in highways, ports, and civil aviation. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AfDB ($30 million), the KfW ($13 million) through special joint financing, the GTZ ($1 million), and the FAC ($1 million) Total cost' SI 11.5 million
HAITI: IDA—$20 million A seventh transport project is designed to improve and develop roads, bridges, and coastal shipping started under previous projects, and to continue the strengthening of sectoral institutions. Total cost: $24 million.
INDIA- IDA—$119.6 million. Additional ail-weather roads will be constructed for the benefit of the rural poor, and rural-road construction and maintenance, road planning, and road-mamtenance management in Gujarat state improved Total cost. $170 8 million.
KENYA: IDA—$28 million. Support will be provided to help reverse the deteriorating performance of Kenya Railways through the provision of technical assistance, appropriate training, and essential equipment and spare parts to help overcome the lack of motive power. Cofinancing ($13 3 million) is expected from the ODA. Total cost- $45 5 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$16 million Through a program of rehabilitation of ports infrastructure, modifications and improvements to cargo handling, strengthening navigation and other services to shipping, and institutional development and reform, the cost of international and
coastal shipping through improved cargo handling is expected to be reduced. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($10 million), the FAC ($2.6 million), the KfW ($2 3 million), and the ODA ($100,000). Total cost: $34.8 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$152 million. A fourth highway project seeks to improve the institutional efficiency of the National Highways Board, rehabilitate sections of the country's major highway, develop the capacity of local contractors to execute efficiently maintenance-and-rehabilitation works, and ensure continued adequate mobilization of revenues from road users. Total cost: $285 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: IBRD—$45 5 million. Land and air transport will be improved through reconstruction, upgrading, and maintenance of national roads, equipment replacement, improved safety standards, and periodic maintenance, respectively. In addition, improvements in road-efficiency maintenance will be made, and institution-strengthening assistance provided. Cofinancing ($3.1 million) is expected from ADAB. Total cost: $64.7 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$32 million. Six port facilities will be expanded, and rehabilitation-and-mamtenance works begun at six others (with further provision of rehabilitation at ten others to be identified). In addition, technical assistance will be provided in project implementation and financial management. Training and studies, needed for further development of the country's port system, are included Total cost. $46.6 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$50 million. The Highway Authority's (JAE) three-year investment/expenditure program for 1986-88 will be supported. Technical assistance and training for the JAE are included. Total cost $400 4 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$22 6 million. Ship-waiting time and improved port performance are expected to result through assistance to the Somali Ports Authority Technical assistance and training are included Total cost $24 4 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$197 million The government's effort m increasing operational efficiency and financial recovery of its railways through a program of improved locomotive-fleet maintenance, overhauling and construction of track, modernization of mam-line signalling, and technical assistance will be supported. External financing ($9 million), either in the form of cofinancing or
suppliers' credits, is being sought. Total cost: $582 2 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$18 million. Capital
investment will be protected, and the service life of essential trunk roads increased, maintenance planning and operations of rural/feeder roads improved, and institutions responsible for project implementation strengthened in this fourth highway project in the country. Total cost $21.8 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$10 million Through the completion to paved standards of the 62.5-kilometer Manb-to-Safir road, the paved-road network at Manb will be connected with the oil field and refinery at Safir. and road access for the movement and marketing of agricultural products from the Wadi As Sudd area will be secured. Total cost. $14.5 million.
YEMEN, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF' IDA—$16.8 million. A fifth highway project seeks to complete the establishment of an effective road-maintenance organization, create an efficient, well-trained. Highway Authority workforce, and provide a sound basis for planning the future development of the road system. In addition, finance will be provided to help repair roads damaged by recent floods Parallel cofinancmg ($5.1 million) is anticipated from the AFESD. Total cost $36 9 million
ZAIRE: IDA—$27.6 million. More efficient and reliable river and sea transport is to result through the strengthening of the River Traffic Authority and the Ocean Traffic Authority (two important public transport-sector agencies) and by rehabilitating their infrastructure and equipment. Cofinancing is anticipated from the AGCD ($9.4 million) and USAID ($1 5 million) Total cost' S47.9 million
Urban Development
BRAZIL. IBRD—$200 million. The operating efficiency of the urban-transport systems in Brazil's nine largest cities will be improved through savings in transport costs and time, and savings from improvements will be passed on to users, many of whom are the urban poor Energy conservation and substitution will be encouraged, the role of financial considerations in urban-transport policy strengthened, and assistance provided for institutional development Total cost $468 2 million
CHINA IBRD—$45 million; IDA—$100
million. Environmental conditions in Shanghai will be improved through physical works to remove and appropriately dispose of
wastewater. In addition, an appropriate institutional framework, encompassing organizational, financial, technical, and legislative matters for the management of liquid wastes and for environmental protection, will be set up Total cost: $372 6 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$126 million. A housing-finance facility will be established to provide long-term housing finance by refinancing housing loans made by commercial banks, thus encouraging the shift of main responsibility for housing finance to the private sector. In addition, basic infrastructure for the rehabilitation of land for housing development will be provided. Total cost: $304.2 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$4 5 million. Supplementary funds will be provided to help finance a priority works program in Conakry under an urban-development project for which an IDA commitment was made in May 1984 in the amount of S12 8 million. The funds will help the government avert some of the potentially adverse short-term effects of the contraction of public-sector employment being pursued under the IDA-financed structural-adjustment credit.
INDIA: IBRD—$20 million, IDA—$130 million. Policy adjustments, institutional strengthening, and urban shelter and infrastructure developments initiated by the government of Uttar Pradesh state will be supported In addition, consultant services, studies, training, priority rehabilitation and pollution-control works, and equipment for sewer-cleamng operations and river monitoring to reduce pollution of the Ganga river will be provided. Total cost' $237.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$270 million. Assistance will be provided to help sustain the momentum of the government's urban-sector expenditure program for the next two years and support an action program of longer-term sector reforms and improvement Total cost: $1,005 8 million
INDONESIA: IBRD—$51 million. A high-priority program of infrastructure-improvement measures, aimed at relieving traffic congestion and promoting transport efficiency in Surabaya, Bandung, Medan, and Semarang. will be implemented. Total cost: $88 1 million
JORDAN: IBRD—$26.4 million A national urban-development project has been designed to improve living conditions in the largest remaining squatter and slum areas in the country, manage urban growth through rapid and cost-effective development of infrastructure and social facilities, and
recover the full cost of infrastructure through land sales and tariffs. Total cost: $93 3 million.
KOREA. REPUBLIC OF. IBRD—$150 million. Measures designed to improve the country's housing-finance system and increase its effectiveness in expanding the supply of housing, especially for the low-income population, will be supported Total cost. $1,442.5 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$50 million. The implementation of a comprehensive program of institutional and policy development for the Pusan city government will be supported; about one third of the investments in the city's investment plan, emphasizing small, complementary works that complete the benefits of existing infrastructure, will be financed. Total cost-$194 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$125 million. Civil works, materials and equipment, technical assistance, and studies to initiate and support a transport-systems management approach to urban transport in the Monterrey metropolitan region (the state of Nuevo Leon) and the urbanized area in the state of Mexico will be financed. Total cost. $294.9 million.
THAILAND. IBRD—$21 million. A third shelter project seeks to increase the National Housing Authority's (NHA) reliance on domestically mobilized resources, promote lending to lower-income households, strengthen NHA's management practices, support housing programs for lower-income and middle-income families, and improve the availability of housing-sector data necessary for the development of housing policy. Total cost: $85.3 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$30 2 million. Infrastructure and community facilities m underserved areas will be upgraded, serviced sites targeted for low-income groups developed, and a program of technical assistance provided to key agencies active in the area of urban development. Total cost: S67.4 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$120 million. Assistance will be provided to help the government refine and implement its strategy of decentralizing responsibilities for key municipal services to local governments through selective interventions in five major cities in the Cukurova region of southern Turkey. Total cost: $467 4 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
ALGERIA: IBRD—$250 million. A second national water-supply and sewerage project is designed to support the government's current five-year investment plan (1985-89) and the
continued institutional development of the water-supply and sewerage sector Total cost $630.5 million.
THE BAHAMAS. IBRD—$10 million. The Water and Sewerage Corporation will be assisted m improving its operations and maintenance, increasing water-supply and sewerage-system reliability through short-term to medium-term rehabilitation measures, and exploring ways to improve water-resource management for New Providence Island, with alternative solutions for meeting the long-term demand for water. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB ($7 million) and the CDB ($4.3 million). Total cost: $33.5 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$30 million. Existing water-supply and sewerage systems m metropolitan Dhaka will be expanded, sectoral training and planning expanded, and the operational and financial performance of the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority improved. Total cost: $41.4 million.
ECUADOR. IBRD—$31 million. Almost 1 million people will directly benefit from a second Guayaquil and Guayas province water-supply project that also includes institution-buildmg assistance to the Guayaquil Municipal Water Supply Company (EMAP-G). Cofinancing ($8 million) is anticipated from the CDC. Total cost: $50.5 million
THE GAMBIA: IDA—$7 million Water-supply facilities and the electricity-supply system m the greater Banjul area will be expanded, as will public water supplies in seven provincial urban areas. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($4 million), the IsDB ($4 million), and the EDF/EEC ($2 6 million). Total cost: $19.4 million.
GUATEMALA. IBRD—$23 million. Through a program of technical assistance, operational improvements, and construction of additional capacity for production of water, the Empresa Municipal de Agua will be aided in becoming a more efficient organization, capable of providing good service without recourse to operating subsidies from the government. Total cost: $30 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$40 million; IDA—$145 million. Bombay's water-supply, as well as its sewerage system, will be expanded, and site-specific sanitation and water-supply facilities to serve the needs of the urban poor will be provided, as will institutional-strengthening assistance to the Water Supply and Sewerage Department of the Bombay Municipal Corporation. Total cost: $304.3 million.
INDIA. IBRD—$53 million, IDA—$16 million. Through support for the investment program of the Madras Water Supply and Sewerage Board, operational performance and project-implementation capacity will be improved, and a viable long-term investment plan developed Total cost $112 2 million.
LESOTHO IDA—$9.8 million. The engineering phase of a scheme to transfer the waters of the Senqu (Orange) river for sale to South Africa and to generate hydroelectncity to meet Lesotho's power needs will be financed Cofinancmg is being provided by South Africa ($21.8 million), the EDF ($10.2 million), the EIB ($3 million), the ODA ($1 5 million), the UNDP ($900,000), CIM ($600,000), and USAID ($400,000). Total cost. $51.3 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$10 million. To assist in rebuilding infrastructure damaged by a March 1986 cyclone, supplementary finance will be provided in support of a cyclone-rehabilitation project, approved in fiscal 1984 in the amount of $15 million
MALAWI' IDA—$20 million. The water-supply system of Lilongwe will be extended and improved, future options for the city's water-disposal and sanitation systems studied, and institution-building assistance provided to the Lilongwe Water Board Cofinancing is to be provided by the EIB ($6 5 million) and the ODA ($700,000). Total cost' $30.5 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—S60 million Policy reforms and sector-adjustment measures, designed to alleviate constraints facing the water-supply sector, will be initiated. The Office National de PEau Potable will be restructured, as will the sixteen public water-supply enterprises, their directorate in the Ministry of the Interior, and the Hydraulic Administration of the Ministry of Equipment. Total cost. $128 3 million
MOROCCO: IBRD—$60 million A greater Casablanca sewerage project aims at helping the government develop competent and financially viable institutions that would implement sound policies and efficiently manage the subsector, adopt appropriate financial policies and tariff structures, apply appropriate technologies for sewage collection, treatment, and disposal; and plan and implement adequate expansion programs. Total cost. $116 9 million
RWANDA: IDA—$15 million Institutions involved in the rural water-supply subsector will be strengthened, cost-recovery mechanisms for safe, self-sustaining systems of water supply will be established, and a program to rehabilitate rural water-supply systems and implement institutional and cost-recovery policies throughout the country supported Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($16 million), the ADF ($12.5 million), Switzerland (S8 3 million), BADEA ($7.3 million), Austria ($7 million), and the UNDP ($700,000) Total cost $72 2 million
TURKEY: IBRD—SI84 million Better environmental conditions in Izmir will be promoted through adequate water supply, sewerage, and sewage-treatment facilities, as well as through appropriate industrial waste-treatment policies and practices. Total cost: $521.8 million.
YEMEN. PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF IDA—$5 6 million A second water-supply project provides for construction of a wellfield, further renovation and expansion of the water-distribution network, a leak-detection and repair program, and institutional assistance to the Public Water Corporation Cofinancing is anticipated from the AFESD and the KFAED (SI2.4 million), as well as from DANIDA ($10 million) Total cost: $32.2 million
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix G
June 30, 1987 and June 30, 1986
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in terms of US dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The IBRD's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested, or lent in those same currencies. The IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes converted into other currencies, and, at the same'time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. With respect to its other resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the IBRD.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Income and expenses are generally translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each month. Translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A, are charged or credited to the General Reserve.
Valuation of Capital Stock
In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the IBRD is expressed in terms of "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the United States law defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. On October 14, 1986, the Executive Directors of the IBRD decided, with effect starting on June 30, 1987 and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, to interpret the words "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1,1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR).
The capital stock of the IBRD is valued in these financial statements on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, the IBRD had valued its capital stock on the basis ol the SDR at its current market value. The financial statements of prior periods have been restated to reflect a value for capital stock In terms of 1974 SDRs with a value of $1.20635 for one 1974 SDR.
Loans
All of the IBRD's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation The principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. For loans negotiated since July 1980 (and for portions of certain earlier loans), the repayment obligations of borrowers in various currencies are determined on the basis of a currency pooling system, which is designed to equalize exchange rate risks among borrowers. Interest on loans is accrued in the currencies lent.
The IBRD has a policy of not participating in debt rescheduling agreements. It is the policy of the IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to
or guaranteed by a member ol the IBRD, if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by the IBRD. The IBRD evaluates the need for specific provisions for losses on loans made to or guaranteed by a member of the IBRD no later than when arrears on principal, interest, or other charges on any such loan reach two years. Each decision on provisioning is made on the basis of a review of the particular circumstances then prevailing. Any such provisions are recorded as a reduction of net income. To the extent that actual losses on loans should occur in amounts in excess of accumulated provisions on any such loans and the amount provided by the Special Reserve, the excess would be included in the determinatinn of net income.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments. From time to time, the IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of settlement.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The IBRD has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve.
Since 1964, it has been the IBRD's policy to transfer to the International Development Association part of the year's income that was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the IBRD's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. In October 1985, the IBRD made a similar transfer to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa which is administered by the International Development Association. These transfers are recorded as a charge to Accumulated Net Income—Unallocated.
Note A—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock: At June 30, 1987, the IBRD's capital comprised 786,500 (786,500—1986) authorized shares, of which 706,516 (658,364—1986) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 100,000 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $7,272,383,000 ($6,850,278,000—1986) has been called and paid in, and the remaining $77,958,175,000 ($72,571,463,000—1986) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $68,184,446,000 ($63,537,393,000—1986) the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $9,773,729,000 ($9,034,070,000—1986) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the IBRD is divided into two parts: (1) $727,238,000 ($685,028,000— 1986) initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars and (2) $6,545,145,000 ($6,165,250,000—1986) paid in cash or non-interest-bearing demand obligations in the currencies of the respective members. Of this latter portion, an amount of $134,217,000 ($134,217,000—1986) was subsequently converted by members into U.S. dollars. The amounts paid in gold or U.S. dollars or subsequently converted by members into U.S. dollars are freely usable by the IBRD in any of its operations; however, the remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by the IBRD in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $4,006,909,000 ($3,029,894,000—1986) has been used with such consent.
Maintenance of Value Article II, Sector 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as ot the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to the IBRD in the event that the par value ol its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, ir the opinion of the IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2| the IBRD to re'mburse the member in the evenl that the par value of its currency is increased
The Executive Directors decided on October 14, 1986 that maintenance of value settlements would be resumed effective June 30 1987 Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts will be determined bv measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based or the 1974 SDR Members will be reqcred to make payments to the IBRD if their currencies depreciate significant^ relatve to the standard of value Furthermore, the Executive Directors decided to adopt a policy of reimbursing members whose currences appreciate signidcartly in terms of the standard ot value
With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, maintenance ot value obligations become effective only as such currencies are recovered bv the IBRD The maintenance of value amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings—Amounts Deferred
Note B—Investments and Cash Collateral Invested
The market value of investment securities and invested cash collateral received on loaned securities, including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $5,351 638,000 ($3,527,052,000—1986) was $22,071,854,000 ($21 982,542,000— 1986), compared with a cost or amortized cost of $22,074,024,000 ($21,894,957,000—1986) Obligatons of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost ot $292 538 000 ($292,538,000—1986] and a market value of $291 878 000 ($293,125,000—1986) set aside in respect of the Special Reserve as described ir Note E, are mcluded under this heading
Income from investments includes net gains of 554,067,000 ($367,430000— 1986) resulting from sales of investments The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the year ended June 30 1987, including net gams from sales of investments, was 759% (10 66%—1986)
Note C—Loans, Cofinancing, and Guarantees
The IBRD has entered into agreements for loans syndicated by other financial institutions either by a direct participation in, or a partial guarantee of loans for the benefit of member countries The IBRD's direct participations in syndicated loans are included in reported loan balances Guarantees of $933 628 000 as of June 30, 1987 ($159,262,000—1986 restated) are not included in reported loan balances None ot these guarantees was subject lo call at June 30, 1987
The IBRD has partially guaranteed the time'y payment of interest amounts on certain loans that have been sold At June 30, 1987 guarantees approximating $15,361,000 ($7 535 000—19861 were subiect to call
Under the Articles, the tota amount outstanding of guarantees participations in loans, and direct loans made bv the IBRD may not he increased lo an amount exceeding 100% ol the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus On February 17, 1987, the IBRD's Executive Directors issued guidelines pursuant to which all guarantees issued bv the IBRD will be counted towards this limit at the time they may first become callable, irrespective of the likelihood of an actual call
As of June 30,1987, the total amount of eatable guarantees and disbursed and outstanding participations in loans and direct loans was approximately $75 807 010 000 or 84% of the sum ot subscribed capital, reserves and
surplus The comparable figure as of a year earlier was approximately 73% The increase in this percentage is attributable primarily to a decrease in the foreign exchange value of the US doilar, in which the IBRD's capital is expressed, relative to the various non-dollar currencies in which most of the BRD's loans are denominated IBRD management is closely monitoring the situation and is consulting with member governments about a general capital increase which would avoid operational constraints arising from this provision of the Articles
Note D—Borrowings and Currency Swaps
The IBRD has entered into currency swaps in which proceeds of a borrowing are converted into a different currency ard simultaneously, a forward excharge agreement is executed providing for a schedule of future exchanges of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted Net payables ot $2379,452,000 ($1,130,839,000—1986) resulting primarly from exchange rate movements occurring subsequent to the dates of the swaps are shown under the heading Other Liabilities The effect of currency swaps is to transform the cost of the original borrowing to a cost which reflects the market yield ot the currency obtained in the conversion The average cost of borrowings outstanding, including short-term borrowings, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987 was 7 73% (8 25%—1986), reflecting a reduction of cost of $266 020,000 ($325,911 000—1986) as a result of currency swaps
Note E—Reserves and Net Income
In July 1986, the IBRD allocated $962,757,000 to the Genera' Reserve out of the S1,243,457,000 net income earned in the hscal vear ended June 30, 1986 In October 1986, the IBRD decided to transfer the balance of $280,700,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association
The Special Reserve consists of oan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV Section 6, ot the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities ol the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees n the event ot defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD The Special Reserve assets compnse obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it
Note F—Income and Expenses
Other income 'ncludes gains of $4,235,000 ($7,599,000—19861, resultirg from repurchases of obligations of the IBRD prior to maturity, and net gains from loan safes of $20 553 00O ($10 369 000—1986)
Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of S332,046,000 ($280,750,000—1986) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $3,340,000 (S3,130,000—19861 charged to the International Tinance Corporation Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, the control of oncho cerciasis and other developmental activities
In May 1987, the IBRD announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency and effectiveness The direct costs of the reorganization, estimated to be $101,300,000 consist ot the costs of staff separation training of staff tor improving their skills, offices moves, and certain modifications to the IBRD's computer-based information and data svstens These costs will oe substantially paid over the next six months The portion which relates to IBRD of $57 400 000 is included in Administrative Expenses in the accompany ng Statement ol Income—Appendix B The balance has been charged to the International Development Association
At June 30, 1987, principal installments of $18,692,000 and interest and other charges ol $23 444 000 payable to the IBRD on loans other than those
(continued)
referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue by more than three months. The aggregate principal ampunt disbursed and outstanding on these loans was $592,606,000. The aggregate principal amount disbursed and outstanding on all loans to borrowers with any one loan overdue by more than three months was $1,751,879,000.
At June 30, 1987, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $842,624,000 ($302,188,000—1986), of which $71,217,000 ($25,737,000—1986) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. It these loans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987 would have been $76,230,000 ($9,025,000—1986) higher.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987, the IBRD made a provision of $41,000,000 ($37,200,000—1986) for losses on loans made to or guaranteed by Nicaragua. Accumulated provisions for losses on these loans totaled $85,331,000 at June 30,1987 ($37,200,000—1986). There were no changes to the Accumulated Provisions for Loan Losses during the fiscal year other than translation adjustments and the above-mentioned addition related to loans to Nicaragua.
Note G—Transfers to the International Development Association and to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Association totaling $2,514,188,000 ($2,219,000,000—1986)
from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30, 1986. Of these transfers, $720,108,000 remained payable at June 30,1987 ($524,920,000 at June 30, 1986).
During the fiscal year ended June 30,1986 the Bank authorized a transfer by way of a grant to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa of $150,000,000 from net income for the fiscal year ended June 30,1985. The full amount was payable at June 30, 1987 and June 30,1986 .
Note H—Staff Retirement Plan
The IBRD has a contributory retirement plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. The staff contribute a fixed percentage of pensionable remuneration, and the IBRD contributes the remainder of the cost of funding the Plan. The IBRD uses an aggregate funding method for determining its cost. Such cost is funded as accrued. The cost of the Plan to the IBRD during the period was $66,276,000 ($66,904,000—1986), All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income held for the purposes of the Plan are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the IBRD and International Finance Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been discharged. The comparison of accumulated benefits and net assets of the Plan is presented below:
The assumed rate of return used in determining the actuarial present value of the accumulated Plan benefits was 10% for 1986 (10% for 1985).
Notes to Financial Statements Appendix F
June 30, 1987 and June 30, 1986
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Organization and Operations
IDA was established on September 24, 1960 to promote economic development, increase productivity, and raise the standard of living of its develop ng-country members
On October 26,1982, IDA estab shed the Special Fund constituted by funds to be contributed by members of IDA and administered by IDA, to supplement the regular resources available for ending by IDA The arrangements governirg the Special Fund may be amended or terminated by IDA'S Executive Directors subject to the agreement of a qualified majority of the contributors to the Special Fund The Special Fund became effective on December 13, 1982 The resources of the Special Fund are kept separate from the resources of IDA
On May 21,1985, IDA established a Special Faculty for Sub-Saharan Africa fttie African Facility) constituted by funds to be contributed by the Internationa' Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and other donors to provide financing for countries of the Sub-Saharan region The African Facility became effective on July 1, 1985, and is administered by IDA The resources of the African Facility are kept separate from the resources of IDA
Translation of Currencies
IDA IDA is an international organization which conducts Is operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland Assets and liabilities are translated at market rates of exchange at the end ot the accounting period Income is generally translated at an average of the market rates of exchange ir effect during each month Subscriptions and contributions are translated in the manner described below Translation adiustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Cumulative Translation Adiustments on Development Credits Other translation adjustments are included in the determination of Liquid Funds
Special Fund and African Facility Assets of the Special Fund and the African Facility are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of Ihe period Contributions are translated in the manner described below
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions
IDA The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed .n terms of "US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960 (1960 dollars) Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the United States law defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared On June 30, 1987, the Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect on that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, to interpret the words 'United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" in Article II, Sectior 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms ot United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1 1974 such vaiie being equal lo $1 20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors
The subscriptons and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed on the bass of the 1974 SDR .n these financial statements Prior to the decisior of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current
market value of the SDR The financial statements of prior periods nave been restated to refect the va ue of subscriptions and contrbutons in terms of 1974 SDRs
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the fourth replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SDRs and are payab e in members' currencies Prior to July 1,1986, amounts receivable and amounts received but not yet disbursed were translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting period Amounts which had beer disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange on dates of disbursement or conversion Beginning July 1, 1986, amounts received but not yet disbursed, as well as amounts disbursed or converted into other currencies, are translated at market rates ol exchange on the dates they were made available for disbursement in cash to IDA
Special Fund and African Facility Undisbursed contributions are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period Disbursed contributions are translated at market rates of exchange effect ve on the dates of disbursement
Development Credits
IDA All of IDA s development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for four development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of I0A) IDA has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and no losses are anticipated However, should such losses arise they would be included ir the determination of Operating Income
The repayment obligations of IDA's development credits funded from resources through the fifth replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars Pending resolution of the valuation issue, as an interim measure payments have been accepted at the rate of S1 20635 per 1960 dollar On June 30,1987 the Executive Directors decided to value such credits at that rate on a permanent basis Consequently, no adjustment has been required to the item Development Credits Outstanding and the corresponding Cumulative Translation Adjustment Development credits funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs, the principal amounts disbursed under such credts are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value of the disbursements in terms of SDRs
Special Fund Special Fund credits are denominated in SDRs The principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed
Special Fund credits are made on the same terms as regular IDA credits except that the proceeds of Special Fund credits may be used only to finance expenditures for goods or services from (a) Part II members of IDA lb) Part I members contributing to the Special Fund, and (c) Part I members contributing to the regular resources of IDA through IDA's FY84 Account who have notified IDA that such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions to the Special Fund for purposes of any future adjustment of the voting rights of the members of IDA
African Facility African Facility credits are denominated in SDRs The principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed
African Facility credits are made to member countries of IDA in Sub-Saharan Africa which are eligible for development credits of IDA and have undertaken, or are committed to undertake, medium-term programs of policy reform and stabilization measures acceptable to IDA Proceeds of African Facility credits equivalent to the amount contributed by the IBRD shall be used in the same manner as the regular resources of IDA The remaining proceeds may be used only to finance expenditures for goods produced or services supplied from (a) Part II members of IDA, (bi Part I members contributing to the African Facility, and (c) countries which maintain special joint financing arrangements with IDA
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost which approximates market Gains or losses on sales ot investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments
Reclassification of Financial Statements
The June 30, 1986 financial statements have been reclassified to be comparable to the June 30.1987 financia, statements which are shown in a new format The financial statements have been changed to better reflect the operations ot IDA, the Special Fund, and the African Facility
Note A—Cash Not Immediately Available for Disbursement
Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrangements governing replenishments (DA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable period of time, the resources provided by donors for lending by IDA are used on an approximately pro rata basis Donors sometimes contribute cash substantially ahead of pro rata Unless otherwise agreed, IDA does not disburse these funds ahead of pro rata Cash Not Immediately Available for Disbursement represents the difference between the cash contributed and the amount available tor disbursements on a pro rata basis
Note B—Restricted Assets and Subscriptions
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currenc.es which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations, (2) Part II members which make payments of 10 percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies IDA'S Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA tor projects financed by IDA and located outside Be territories of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA
Note C—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA'S Articles of Agreement provide for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the members' temtones, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth and subsequent replenishments
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987, that settlement of maintenance of value obligations, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements
Note D—Contribution by Switzerland
IDA has received grant contributions in the amount of SwF181 480,000 from the Swiss Confederation which is not a member of IDA The agreements between the Confederation and IDA provide for converting these grant contributions into subscriptions or contributions if Switzerland should become a member of IDA
Note E—Subscriptions and Contributions
In its notification of participation in the seventh replenishment, the United States agreed to pay to IDA one-third of its total subscription and contribution without qualification and to pay the remainder subject to enactmert ot the necessary budgetary and appropriations legislation The seventh replenishment resolution provided that if notifications of its subscription and contribution had not been received by October 31 1985 and October 31,1986, respectively, the other contributors would have the right to require that the amount of the second or third tranche (whichever may be applicable) of their respective subscriptions and contributions available for commitment be reduced in proportion to the shortfall in unqualified commitments by the United States As of December 18 1986, the United States had increased its unqualified commitment to 81,292,523,000 in respect of the second and third tranches, bringing its aggregate unqualified commitment to 90 78 percent of the total amount of its subscription and contribution Most members have waved their right to reduce their contributions and have agreed to release their second and third tranches As of June 30,1987, the amount of subscriptions and contributions available for commitment on the basis of the resolution or such waivers totaled the equivalent of $10,082,193,000 and the remaining balance in the equivalent of $352,469,000 was subject to the above-mentioned restrictions
On June 26,1987, the Executive Directors adopted a resolution authorizing an eighth replenishment of IDA'S resources The amount of the replenishment, including supplementary contributions provided by certain members and a grant from Switzerland, is equivalent to approximately $12 4 billion (at the exchange rates determined pursuant to a formula agreed among the contributing members) The eighth replenishment, on effectiveness, is intended to provide IDA with resources to fund credits that will be committed during the period July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1990
At June 30 1 987 and 1986 the composition of unrestricted subscriptions and contributions (expressed in thousands of US dollars) not yet due will become due as follows
'Restated for comparative purposes
"•Includes the portion of the United States' contribution which is qualified as described above
Note F-—Transfers from The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to IDA totaling $2,514,188,000 ($2,219,000,000—1986) from net income of the IBRD for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30, 1986 Of the total amount, $79,905,000 ($79,905,000—1986) has been disbursed for grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis, and other development activities Of the balance of $2,434,283 000 ($2,139,095,000—1986) available for genera! purposes of IDA, $1,714,175,000 ($1,614,175,000—
1986) has been received and S720 1 08 000 ($524,920,000—1986) is reflected as a receivable from the IBRD
African Facility The IBRD authorized a transfer to the African Facility of $150,000000 from net income of the IBRD for the year ended June 30, 1985 These funds will be paid to the African Facility as needed to finance African Facility credits
Note G—Income and Expenses
IDA IDA pays a management fee to the IBRD representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD In May 1987 the IBRD announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency and effectiveness IDA's share of accrued reorganization costs of $43,900,000 is included in the management fee to IBRD
At June 30, 1987, principal installments of $1,449,000 and service and commitment charges of $2,069,000 payable to IDA on development credits were overdue by more than three months The principal disbursed and outstanding on these development credits amounted to $344,339000
The aggregate principal amount disbursed and outstanding on credits to borrowers with any one credit overdue by more than three months was $1,500,841,000 It is not anticipated that these delays in payments will result ,n any loss to IDA
Special Fund and African Facility The service and commitment charges payable by borrowers under Special Fund and African Facility credits are paid directly to IDA to compensate it for services as administrator of the Special Fund and the African Facility Income from investments of the Special Fund and the African Facility becomes part of the resources of the Special Fund and the African Facility, respectively
Note H—Development Credits
Special Fund and African Facility Special Fund and African Facility Development Credits Outstanding are included in the Statements of Condition of IDA, since the principal repayment on these credits shall become part of the genera resources of IDA, unless otherwise provided in a decision of IDA'S Executive Directors to terminate administration of the Special Fund and/or African Facility by IDA