10
Going home from school in the Yemen Arab Republic. Six IDA credits, totaling $61 million, have been approved in support of education in the Yemen Arab Republic.
Section One
The Executive Board
Under the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, all its powers are vested in a board of governors, consisting of one governor for each member country. With the exception of certain powers specifically reserved to them by the Articles of Agreement, the governors of the Bank have delegated their powers to a board of executive directors that performs its duties on a full-time basis at the Bank's headquarters. There are twenty-two executive directors; each director appoints an alternate. As provided for in the Articles of Agreement, five directors are appointed by the five members having the largest number of shares of capital stock, and the rest are elected by the governors representing the other members.
The executive directors meet under the chairmanship of the president of the Bank. Formal votes are rare as, in practice, most decisions are reached by consensus. The executive directors are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Bank. They decide on Bank policy in the framework of the Articles of Agreement. They also decide on all loan and credit proposals.
The executive directors are also responsible for presentation to the board of governors at its annual meetings of an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the World Bank, and any other items that, in their judgment, require submission to the board of governors. Matters may be submitted to the governors at the annual meetings or at any time between annual meetings.
The executive board exercises its authority, under the Articles of Agreement, in three general areas: (a) by its annual oversight of the financial and operating programs, and administrative budgets (see Table 1-1), it determines the allocation of financial and staff resources for the coming year; (b) by reviewing specific policy proposals, either annually (for example, the allocation of net income, staff compensation, the research program) or periodically (for example, the IBRD's capital requirements, financial policies, lending terms, sectoral priorities), it determines the direction of Bank policies; and (c) by reviewing evaluations of completed Bank projects and of the Bank's experience in individual sectors and with particular policies, and by considering proposals for future eval-
uation activities, the board ensures that the Bank and member countries are able to benefit from the lessons of experience.
*       * *
In fulfilling its oversight of the IBRD and IDA financial and operating programs, the executive board completed the mid-year review of the 1988 fiscal year financial and operating programs and administrative budgets. Before the end of the fiscal year, the executive directors approved a fiscal 1989 borrowing program of about $11.5 billion and set IBRD lending for fiscal 1989 at between $14.5 billion and $19.5 billion, with an IDA lending program of SDR3.6 billion.
Of major importance to the IBRD's ability to meet adequately its projected increase in lending over the next five or six years was the agreement of the executive board to recommend to the board of governors a general capital increase (GCI). Through a series of formal and informal meetings, the board discussed and unanimously recommended to the board of governors, on February 19, a capital increase of $74.8 billion, corresponding to 620,000 shares, to be allocated on a pro-rata basis with a 3 percent paid-in portion. On April 27, 1988, governors representing more than the 75 percent of affirmative votes needed to trigger the GCI's effectiveness, endorsed the board's recommendation. (For details, see page 32.)
The executive directors also recommended the adoption of a resolution for a 1988 Additional Increase in Authorized Capital that provides for an additional 14,000 shares, corresponding to 1 percent of total shares, to be set aside for new members. The board of governors also adopted this resolution on April 27. In the course of its discussions, the executive board established two ad hoc committees to deal with issues arising from the GCI. The first, the Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank Capital, will consider possible changes in the valuation of IBRD capital, as well as any other steps, that could help to diminish the IBRD's vulnerability to fluctuations in exchange rates. The second, the Ad Hoc Committee on Voting Rights of Smaller Members, will review the issues and consider steps to protect the voting power
of smaller member countries, which faces dilution whenever there is a general increase in the IBRD's capital.
In other major financial-policy actions, the executive board reviewed IDA charges, as well as IBRD repayment terms. The board approved, for all IDA credits including those already approved and which carry a commitment fee, a variable commitment fee within a range of 0 percent to 0.5 percent and a policy to decide the future rate on an annual basis based on IDA's financial position. For fiscal 1988, the variable rate remained at 0.5 percent; for fiscal 1989, the rate will be reduced to 0 percent. This policy was deemed appropriate since the new cost-sharing arrangement between IDA and the IBRD approved by the executive directors as part of the fiscal 1988 budget package is expected to result in a surplus in IDA'S operating income that can be passed on to its borrowers through lower rates. The board also approved a modification of IBRD repayment terms that included shifting repayment of new loans for low-income countries to an annuity; extending, through fiscal 1991, the grace period on new loans to middle-income countries from three to five years; and reviewing repayment terms for middle-income countries within three years.
The executive board reviewed the policy on IBRD liquidity and agreed that for planning purposes, the IBRD's annual borrowing program should be formulated so as to achieve year-end liquidity of at least 45 percent of the next three-year net cash requirement and that planned departures from this level be reviewed and approved by the board in the context of the annual borrowing program. The board considered a report reviewing the B3RD's experience with swap insurance and approved a resolution amending the existing global swap authorization to allow the IBRD to enter into agreements with certain commercial banks. The board also considered a paper prepared by the Bank's management on the subject of retroactive financing. They agreed that such financing should continue to be used as an exception to regular Bank financing for promoting prompt and efficient implementation, and that flexibility allowed in its application should be retained.
The board also reviewed a report evaluating the Bank's continuing loan-sales program. The board approved an additional authorization of $300 million equivalent for the program. The additional authorization will be utilized to meet existing demand for additional whole loan sales so as to preserve the Bank's strategic funding alternatives.
In order to streamline and make more flexible the IBRD's borrowing process, the board approved new procedures for authorization of borrowings under which the board authorizes a global borrowing ceiling on a quarterly basis rather than the previous process in which it approved each individ-
ual transaction. The executive board also reviewed the master loan agreement and borrowing arrangement between the IBRD and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). It approved a more flexible loan agreement that more closely resembles market instruments in both structure and pricing. The new arrangements enable the IFC to align the rates and maturity structure of its borrowings from the IBRD more closely with the loans it makes to its clients.
The board reviewed and approved an increase of $55.5 million in the commitment authority of the project-preparation facility (PPF), which is used to finance small, discrete tasks related to gaps in project preparation prior to appraisal completion, or for additional support to the implementing agency in the country for project preparation.
In order to fulfill its responsibility to review project evaluations and proposals for future evaluation activities, the board continued to give particular attention to the operations evaluation department (OED). The director-general, operations evaluation, is directly responsible to the executive directors and is outside the regular staff structure of the Bank, but is linked administratively to the president of the Bank. The board considered the annual report on operations evaluation, the annual review of project-performance results, and the OED work program and staff report. The board generally commended the director-general's report, and agreed with the report's emphasis on the importance of improving dissemination and feedback within the Bank in light of its new organizational structure, as well as the shift in emphasis from project audits to broader studies of important development issues.
The board monitored the Bank's structural-adjustment lending through an interim report on the program.1 Although the board expects to receive a more comprehensive report early in fiscal year 1989, the discussion of the interim report was an opportunity for the board to raise many issues of concern, among others, the balance between structural-adjustment and project lending, the interaction between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in adjustment lending, and the effect of the external environment on the success of structural-adjustment lending.
In addition, constituted as the committee of the whole, the board continued to follow the adjustment-policy objectives and actions of a number of countries through policy-framework papers (PFPs) prepared jointly by the respective governments, the Bank, and the IMF. Since their advent in 1986, policy-framework papers for twenty-seven countries have been prepared and submitted to the committee of the whole for review, and Bank commit-
' For details, see page 65.
merits in support of adjustment, both actual and planned, to countries eligible to have access to the IMF's structural-adjustment facility (SAF) and enhanced structural-adjustment facility (ESAF) have significantly increased. (Prior to the use of the SAF or ESAF, a three-year economic policy framework must be agreed upon by the authorities of the country seeking access to SAF or ESAF resources, the IMF, and the Bank.)
In addition, during the past year, the board also discussed a first review of the Bank's experience with the PFPs. In summarizing the discussion, the board chairman said that:
A broad consensus existed on the need for greater recipient-government involvement to strengthen governments' internal policy coordination and commitment to agreed programs. There was recognition that a longer-term orientation of the PFPs was needed to provide appropriate focus on priority development issues. In order to enhance the value of the PFPs and the Bank's dialogue with low-income member countries, it was desirable that these papers focus more in-depth on sectoral and macroeconomic growth issues, including those concerning the external financing requirements of minimum growth targets in production and per capita consumption. However, a formal link between these papers and Bank adjustment lending should not be established.
There was also support for improved collaboration between the Bank and the IMF in the PFP process and recognition that the dialogue among countries and the two institutions over the necessary components for a policy approach to ensure both adjustment and growth needs to become stronger. At the same time, care was required to avoid cross-conditionality between the two institutions. The evolution of the PFPs and their use will have to be kept under careful review; from time to time, the directors will be consulted on matters that pertain to both.
The executive board continued to be involved in operational and developmental issues in sub-Saharan Africa. It discussed a report on education policies for sub-Saharan Africa and generally endorsed its findings and recommendations, which stressed that adjustment of education policies in response to current demographic and fiscal realities is essential for minimizing the disruptive effects of these factors.2
The board also discussed the Bank's policies for poverty alleviation.3 A board discussion of a status report on the Bank's support for poverty alleviation provided a forum for board members to express their views on the Bank's experience with poverty alleviation and to suggest possible areas for future emphasis. The status report will be followed by the findings of two Bankwide task forces that address poverty issues in action-oriented operational programs.
The Bank's strategy on debt remains a major concern of the executive board. The board discussed a report on the Bank's operational strategies in heavily indebted, middle-income countries and a survey of a market-based menu approach to the debt problem. There was general agreement that a case-by-case approach was the best one for the Bank to follow and, for the most part, there was general support for the principle that the Bank's primary contribution to the crisis must remain its policy advice and economic and sector work— which provide the intellectual underpinning for its dialogue with developing countries—and the direct lending it provides in support of sound programs. (For details, see page 33.) In other sessions, the board received a briefing on the Mexico debt-conversion scheme and agreed to a limited waiver of the negative pledge provision contained in IBRD loan and guarantee agreements with Mexico—a step that was necessary for the debt-exchange offer to proceed.
The board discussed other development issues such as a report on the Bank's technical-assistance activities and issues.4 There was a consensus that technical assistance, which currently accounts for at least 10 percent of the Bank's contribution to development, must continue to be improved in scope and effectiveness and that the Bank should reassert its leadership in this area.
The board also discussed a report on the Bank's experience with rural development from 1965 to 1986.5 The board generally commended the report and the lessons to be drawn for the future that would increase Bank effectiveness in poverty alleviation in rural areas.
The board followed the Bankwide reorganization through a series of reports—a first interim report discussed on July 30, a second progress report discussed on September 13, and a comprehensive report on the reorganization discussed on December 15. As agreed at the December 15 meeting, the executive directors will continue to review the implementation of the Bank's reorganization in fiscal 1989 through the Joint Audit Committee.
In addition to formal board meetings, the executive directors also convene less formally as the committee of the whole and in seminars with management, which allows more informal discussions of a broad range of issues and concerns and fosters consensus building. Topics covered in fiscal 1988 in this matter included: options for dealing with the headroom problem; membership shares and criteria for special share allocation; the medium-term budget planning framework for the period fiscal 1989-91; fiscal 1989 priorities and budget-
2 For details, see page 69.
3 For details, see page 41.
4 For details, see page 78.
5 For details, see page 63.
policy directions; the outline, and subsequently, the draft of the World Development Report 1988; and the IBRD's system of currency management. They also held information meetings with the private-sector development review group.
The directors continued their active involvement with the Development Committee, including assisting committee members in preparation for the meetings, consideration of the draft provisional agendas, and discussing the president's reports and background papers on enhancing assistance to low-income countries facing exceptional difficulties, the adequacy of resource flows to developing countries, and the implementation of the Bank's policies on the environment and development. The board members also participated in all the meetings of the committee, which met in Washington, D.C. in September 1987 and April 1988.
The Joint Audit Committee. The Joint Audit Committee was established in 1970, essentially to represent the shareholders of the Bank in maintaining vigilance over the soundness of the Bank's financial practices and procedures. In pursuing its responsibilities during fiscal 1988, the committee nominated a firm of private, independent, internationally established accountants to conduct the annual audits of the IBRD, IDA, and the IFC, discussed with them the scope of their examination, and reviewed with them the annual audited financial statements and the opinions thereon. In addition, through meetings with the Bank's senior financial officers, the committee helps to provide assurance to the Bank's executive directors that the Bank's financial affairs are properly conducted.
The committee also oversees the work of the operations evaluation and internal auditing departments. It, therefore, reviewed the work programs of the two departments, the work in progress, desirable standards, and procedures of reporting. Through a subcommittee, it gave special attention to project-performance audit reports to determine how well the operations evaluation department carries out its assessment of individual projects. The committee itself reviewed and identified reports giving rise to policy issues that may be considered by the executive directors. Through another subcommittee, the committee examined a number of internal audit reports to determine the adequacy and efficiency of the Bank's internal audit.
Of continuing concern to the committee is the adequacy of the flow of financial information to the executive directors in order for the executive board to discharge its responsibilities properly with respect to the financial policies of the Bank. Accordingly, the system for providing financial information to the board is reviewed periodically by the committee.
The comrriittee provides a continuous channel— it usually meets once a month—through which the internal and external auditors can communicate
with the executive directors should the need arise. The committee consists of eight executive directors, who are appointed by the board for a term of two years after each regular election of executive directors. Since November 1985, Fawzi Hamad Al-Sultan has served as chairman of the committee.
The Committee on Directors' Administrative Matters (CODAM). The CODAM was established in 1968. It considers, makes recommendations, and reports its findings to the executive directors for their decision on matters of administrative policies relating to executive directors, alternates, advisors, and their staff.
Its terms of reference involve it in a wide spectrum of administrative matters and charge it with responsibility for assisting executive directors in the formulation of policies, changes in existing policies, and implementation of such policies. The committee coordinates many of its recommendations with a similar committee established by the executive directors of the IMF. In its recommendations, the committee tries to maintain a balance between the organization and administrative objectives of the institution and the unique circumstances faced by the directors in discharging their dual responsibilities.
The committee meets as frequently as necessary, normally about once a month. The membership consists of six executive directors who are appointed by the board for a term of two years after each regular election of the executive directors. Since July 1987, C. Ulrik Haxthausen has served as its chairman.
Committee On Staff Compensation Issues. The Committee on Staff Compensation Issues was established in July 1980. Its terms of reference mandate it to keep under continuing review and, where appropriate, to advise the executive directors on questions of staff-compensation policy and to maintain close liaison on all such matters with the executive directors of the IMF, bearing in mind the need for general parallelism between the two institutions.
Since its inception, the committee has addressed a wide range of topics. These include: issues arising from a review of expatriate benefits; modifications in the financial-assistance program; principles of staff employment (subsequently adopted by the executive directors), as well as draft rules implementing them on sensitive issues such as separation and demotion; options for "intervening-year" salary review; the findings, implications, and options resulting from the 1984 major compensation review conducted by an outside consulting firm; issues arising from the Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors on Staff Compensation to review certain elements of the staff-compensation system; issues arising from the Bank's job-grading program; and issues arising from the reorganization of the Bank.
The committee consists of eight executive directors, who are appointed by the executive directors for a term of two years after each regular election of executive directors. Since March 1986, C. R. Krishnaswamy Rao Sahib has served as chairman of the committee.
Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors On Staff Compensation. The Joint Bank/Fund Committee of Executive Directors on Staff Compensation consists of four executive directors of the Bank, including three members of the Committee on Staff Compensation Issues, and four executive directors of the IMF. The committee was established in November 1984 to review those aspects of the compensation systems of the Bank and Fund that were called into question during the discussions on staff compensation in the boards of the two institutions in June and July of 1984. Under its mandate, the committee is to consider whether changes in such aspects of the compensation systems are desirable and to recommend any changes that appear appropriate, while bearing in mind the importance of ensuring that the two institutions are able to continue to recruit and retain staff of the highest caliber, the international character of the staff, and the need for the compensation system to recognize more clearly individual performance and ability. Since February 1986, Guenter Grosche (IMF) has served as chairman of the committee. The committee's Final report is expected early in fiscal 1989.
Committee on Cost Effectiveness and Budget Practices. The committee finished its first full year of work in January 1988, following board approval in November 1986 for its establishment. The Bank's use of consultants was the first topic addressed by the committee; a number of its proposals in this area were taken into account in the preparation of the fiscal 1988 budget document. Thereafter, the committee undertook a study of Bank field offices, and a report was issued in December 1987. The main recommendations made by the committee were the following: The incremental costs associated with field offices should be borne by the regions; full-cost budgeting should be adopted for all field offices in step with the introduction of this principle for the Bank; greater use should be made of local high-level staff in field offices; and better training should be provided for staff (both regular and local) assigned to field offices.
Noting that a Task Force/Committee on Field Offices was being set up within the Bank, the committee urged that the Task Force/Committee (a) develop a medium-term plan regarding the cost implications of the growing number and functions of field offices, (b) prepare Bankwide criteria or guidelines for setting up field offices, and (c) weigh the advantages and disadvantages of single-country field offices, as compared with multicountry field
offices. Following its review of field offices, the committee addressed the issue of the Bank's travel policy in view of the impact of operational travel on the Bank's administrative-expense budget. The report, which was issued in May 1988, called on the Bank's management to effect a number of cost-saving measures. One, involving changes in travel policy, would be addressed in consultation with IMF management. The committee is composed of eight executive directors nominated by the board; the chairman is Frank Potter.
Ad Hoc Committee on Board Procedures. The committee was established by the executive directors in July 1987 to review the board's function and procedures, taking into account developments in the international economic environment, the implication of the Bank's reorganized structure, and the IFC's expanded activities. The committee consists of ten executive directors; Timothy Lankester served as chairman from July 1987, and Pedro S. Malan has been serving as chairman since February 1988.
The committee submitted a report in February 1988, which concluded that the role and procedures of the board, as they related to the EBRD and IDA, needed some modification. The key recommendations of the committee concerning IBRD and IDA board procedures, which were subsequently approved by the executive board, included the following:
The committee reaffirmed that the executive directors' work program should be formally reviewed and adopted by the executive directors on a semiannual basis and formulated on the basis of a list of upcoming policy papers. Those papers, the committee noted, should present options for board decision, and, in any case, should indicate clearly the issues at stake and the reasons that led Bank management to the proposed recommendation. The committee also suggested that a summing-up by the chairman for circulation to the board and Bank management should become a regular feature of board procedures whenever the board deals with key policy matters.
With respect to the Bank's lending strategies, the committee recommended that issues concerning lending strategies in individual countries should continue to be raised in the context of board consideration of lending proposals to these countries, and that board discussions address, to the extent possible, issues of policy or special features of proposed operations; that information about lending strategies included in the country briefs be improved; and that there be periodic reports by the senior vice president, operations, on the status of the current lending program and by the regional vice presidents on the main economic and development issues facing the regions.
Finally, the committee recommended that existing board committees should review their terms of
reference and that they should report to the board before the end of fiscal 1988.
Ad Hoc Committee on the Valuation of Bank Capital. This committee was established by the executive directors in February 1988 to review further the question of the valuation of the IBRD's capital in light of recent exchange-rate developments that have resulted in a substantial decline in the IBRD's "headroom," that is, the margin between its statutory limit on lending and the volume of loans that are disbursed and outstanding.
The committee's terms of reference call upon it to consider possible changes in the valuation of the IBRD's capital, as well as any other steps that would help to diminish the IBRD's vulnerability to fluctuations in exchange rates. The committee took into account the desirability of completing its work prior to the meeting of the Development Committee in September 1988; if this proves impossible, the committee will submit a progress report to the executive directors before the meeting of the Development Committee. Since its establishment, Pedro S. Malan has served as chairman of the committee.
Ad Hoc Committee on Voting Power of Smaller Members. This committee was established by the executive directors in February 1988 following discussions on the IBRD's 1988 general capital increase. The committee's mandate is to review the issues and consider steps to protect the voting power of smaller member countries, which face dilution whenever there is a general increase in the Bank's capital. This issue arose because, under the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD, each member has 250 votes plus one additional vote for each share of stock subscribed by it (Article V, Section 3(a)); accordingly, equiproportional increases in members' capital subscriptions reduce the weight of the 250 basic votes granted to each member, thereby diluting the relative power of smaller members and leading to a reduction of total voting power of the developing countries. A progress report is expected from the committee by January 1989. The committee consists of eight executive directors. Since March 1988, Gerhard Boehmer has served as chairman of the committee.
Section Two
The Economic Scene: A Global Perspective
The year 1987 witnessed a continuation of moderate growth in output and of relatively low overall inflation in the industrial countries, while the growth rate of the developing countries was less than it had been in 1986.
Output growth and inflation in the seven largest industrial countries (Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States), each averaged about 3 percent in 1987, with some tendency toward acceleration of output growth and toward deceleration of inflation, as compared with 1986. (See Table 2-1.) In the developing countries, gross domestic product (GDP) on a per capita basis is estimated to have increased 2.3 percent in 1987, as compared with 2.8 percent in 1986, and an average 1.2 percent during the first half of the 1980s. (See Table 2-2.) Actual declines of GDP per capita in 1987 were suffered by sub-Saharan Africa and, on
average, by the highly indebted, middle-income countries. In some of these countries, inflation and other signs of financial instability took a turn for the worse.
Imbalances of payments on current account among the major industrialized countries remained large in 1987. The current-account deficit of the United States amounted to more than $150 billion, while the combined payments surplus of the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan was in excess of $130 billion (Tables 2-3 and 2-4).
Exchange-rate volatility during 1986-87 was unprecedented: The value of the United States dollar fell by more than 50 percent against the yen and the Deutsche mark (Figure 2-1).
Yet the year 1987 also witnessed the beginnings of progress on a number of fronts. Exchange-rate stabilization emerged as a major goal of policy. This was clearly reflected in the declarations of the
Louvre accord (February 1987), the Venice economic summit (June 1987), the meetings of the G-7 countries in Washington, D.C. (December
1987) , and the Toronto economic surrimit (June
1988) .1 New patterns of demand fueled investment in some industrial countries. Developments during the year brought growing recognition of the need to widen the range of instruments available for easing debt problems and to reassess the ways in which existing instruments are used. And initiatives were undertaken by the various elements of the creditor community, in combination with African nations, aimed at coping with, and surmounting, the existing severe development crisis in the low-income countries south of the Sahara.
Events in the Industrialized Countries
Indicators available at mid 1988 show a pick-up in economic activity, some further diminution of both inflation and labor costs, and increases in productivity in the main industrial economies during 1987 and continuing into 1988. One feature is that of Japan's major contribution in setting the pace of global demand. An investment boom, which gathered momentum in Japan in 1987, continued into 1988. In addition, several major European economies performed considerably better than had been expected in late 1987, following the worldwide stock-market plunge of October.
The drop in oil prices in 1986 has improved profitability. Moreover, exports from industrial countries to oil-exporting countries themselves turned around in the second half of 1987 and are now rising rapidly from the low levels of 1986. Stability of wages in industrial countries is contributing to good profits and stable prices, undergirded by higher productivity (hence lower unit costs) as demand picks up. Finally, money balances have been rising more rapidly than corresponding price
levels, which, sooner or later, stimulates demand— and increases the threat of inflation.
The rate of growth of world trade volume and of the market for U.S. exports has been expanding since mid 1987. Thus, increased exports from the United States, linked to that country's much-improved competitive position, are not being offset by decreases in exports elsewhere. Exports from the United States grew during 1987 and early 1988 at over 20 percent a year in volume terms, while current estimates show that world trade increased at about 11 percent from the first to the second half of 1987.
Global demand is also being supported by the continuation of considerable growth in domestic demand in the United States itself. During the second half of 1987, this annualized growth in the United States was 4 percent, and the level of demand was still rising in the first half of 1988, albeit at a slower pace. The savings rate in the United States remains low, however, and its current-account deficit (and, hence, the overall rate of borrowing from abroad) remains on a high plateau. In the first quarter of 1988, the U.S. current-account deficit was about $160 billion on an annual basis, as in 1987, even though the trade balance was improving. The priority that had been given to stability of key exchange rates as an objective of policy in the major countries began to bear fruit at the end of 1987 (see Figure 2-1). Under all these conditions, the growth rate in the supply of money and nominal GNP in the surplus countries has continued to expand, as they continue to add to their reserves.
1 The G-7 (group of seven) countries include Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
This pattern of developments suggests that governments will need to monitor inflationary pressures carefully. These pressures can stem from a combination of monetary influences, a tightening in factor markets for both labor and capital, and rigidities in the labor market that tend to persist in the face of massive shifts in the structure of demand. By April 1988, nonoil commodity prices were up 25 percent over their level in the first quarter of 1987 and were rising month by month during the first half of 1988. Prices of metals and minerals, which are relatively cyclical, were up by 50 percent over the same period. The unemployment rate in the United States at the end of the first quarter of 1988 was down sharply, to 5.6 percent, as compared with 6.6 percent in the first quarter of 1987.
Governments may thus wish to consider what additional policy moves are necessary to address the risks of inflation, and thereby give to the domestic and international financial markets a better sense of solidity and confidence than was characteristic in late 1987 and early 1988. In this vein, the heads of state or government of seven major industrial nations and the president of the Commission of the European Communities, meeting in Toronto in mid June 1988, agreed to enhance their cooperation to sustain noninflationary growth and to maintain vigilance against any resurgence of inflation.
Within the framework of a long-term perspective (which implies looking beyond the management of financial risks in 1988), a strong consensus has emerged that a priority of policy in industrialized countries is to preserve the progress made in the fight against inflation.
For this policy to be workable in the medium term, fiscal policies would need to become more credible and cooperative, giving weight to shared objectives for the global economy. Otherwise, attempts to stabilize exchange rates, given payments imbalances, could cause a recurrence of the stock-market volatility that was of grave concern toward the end of 1987. Any recurrence of volatility, in turn, could lead to excess money creation and "stagflation." International cooperation thus carries its own set of risks. This circumstance is perhaps the major reason why any projections of long-term growth trends are subject to very wide margins of uncertainty.
Demand adequacy is also important for a smoothly functioning adjustment process. Japan is thus of critical importance at this stage, and the resolution of large payments imbalances within Europe, through reduction of rigidities and impediments to trade and competition, as well as through stabilization policies, is also important, not only for the future growth of Europe, but also for Africa, which has strong trade and financial linkages to Europe.
The Situation in the Developing Countries
Although current indicators give a less complete picture of what is going on in the developing countries, it does appear that the resurgence of demand in the industrial countries, especially Japan, has been having a major stimulative effect on developing countries' exports. Moreover, with a lag, their imports are also beginning to respond.
The newly industrialized economies (NIEs) of Asia are the main beneficiaries of the Japanese import boom, and NIE imports are also rising rapidly. Around the end of 1987, Japan's imports from the NIEs were up 50 percent from a year ago in dollar-value terms; most other regions also participated in the boom.
Most developing countries, except in sub-Saharan Africa, experienced smaller current-account deficits or larger surpluses in late 1987 than a year earlier. Correspondingly, most major industrial countries, except for the Federal Republic of Germany, were experiencing reduced surpluses or increased deficits, while the deficit in the United States was little changed from a year earlier.
Improvements in the current balances of developing countries in 1987 reflect increased exports, as well as cutbacks in imports in the highly indebted, middle-income developing countries and low-income countries in Africa. For these two groups of countries, estimates of recent growth in production generally remain low. Thus, differences in growth between the countries constrained by debt and those that do not have serious debt problems continue to be marked.
In 1987, growth of overall output in the developing countries slowed from 4.9 percent in 1986 to an estimated 4.5 percent. The GDP of sub-Saharan Africa actually fell (excluding Nigeria, it rose 1.5 percent—which still implies a decline in per capita terms). Average growth in the highly indebted, middle-income countries was only 1.6 percent, down from 3.4 percent in 1986. Growth in middle-income oil-exporting countries was below 1 percent (and negative in per capita terms), as they tried to absorb and adjust to the shock of lower oil prices. The Indian economy suffered a major drought—the primary factor behind the slowing of GDP growth in South Asia from 4.7 percent in 1986 to 2.7 percent in 1987. Nevertheless, growth trends of many developing countries in East Asia, as well as in the region of Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa, were relatively well sustained.
The external trade environment for the developing countries as a group did improve somewhat in 1987, considering the sizable growth of their collective export volume, the slight recovery in their terms of trade, and the consequent change in the purchasing power of their exports, which was up almost 8 percent from 1986 to 1987 (Table 2-5).
Moreover, import volumes changed broadly in line with the purchasing power of exports, except in the oil-exporting countries, where imports did not start recovering (from a very depressed level in 1986) until late in 1987. Movements in all these indicators varied widely from group to group, depending mainly on the commodity composition of trade and geographic-export orientation. For sub-Saharan Africa, for example, the volume of imports declined again in 1987, as did the purchasing power of exports. The fall in the latter reflected a decline
in export volume, while the terms of trade improved slightly due to a partial recovery of the price of oil.
For exporters of manufactures, however, import volume and the purchasing power of exports both rose by about 8 percent and 11 percent, respectively; the terms of trade worsened, but this factor was overwhelmed by a rise of about 13 percent in export volume. Figure 2-2 shows the divergent pattern of the purchasing power of exports of three major developing regions.
Behind the disparate movements in the terms of trade of the different groups of countries were highly divergent changes in commodity prices (Table 2-6). While the U.S. dollar price of oil recouped in 1987 about half of its loss of 1986 (in percentage terms), nonoil commodity prices for calendar 1987 in U.S. dollar terms remained somewhat flat for the second year in a row; a drop in the index of food and beverages offset the turnaround in indices for metals and minerals and for nonfood agricultural products.
The unwinding of the 1986 coffee-price boom, further depression of grain prices, and the boom in metal prices as a result of industrial expansion (especially in Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom) were the main stories behind the disparate movements in commodity prices. Coffee and cocoa, the main export earners for many of the poorest countries, have entered a period of rapid production growth and low prices. The increases in production are the result of the large-scale plantings that took place following the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in the 1977-79 period. Efforts in the United States to reduce the large agriculture stocks accumulated as a result of high price sup-
ports led to subsidy disputes between the United States and the European Economic Community over import markets. This drove down international prices sharply. However, production has declined, stocks have been reduced, and prices are recovering. The vigor of the industrial boom, especially in Japan, surprised the commodity markets. Prices of raw materials, especially aluminum and copper, increased sharply. Stocks for some of these commodities reached all-time lows. So far, expansion of production has been slow in developing.
When expressed in terms of special drawing rights (SDRs)—to erase most of the distorting effect of U.S. dollar depreciation—or when deflated by prices of manufactured goods exported by the industrial countries, total nonoil commodity prices dropped substantially again from 1986 to 1987, though not by as big a percentage as in 1985 and 1986. The real price of oil, however, rose by some 15 percent, as deflated by export prices of manufactured goods. Thus, the impetus to renewed growth in 1987-88 that is conveyed by international market prices is being felt especially by oil-exporting countries, while countries exporting nonoil primary products (especially food and bev-
erages) have not yet benefited much from the pickup of world trade.
Although the external environment of growth for the developing countries began to look less difficult in 1987 than previously, policies in many countries continued to be oriented toward restraint. For middle-income countries, this restraint was reflected in a move from deficit to surplus on the balance of payments (goods, services, and private transfers) from 1986 to 1987 (Table 2-7). China (a large, low-income country) also slashed its current-account deficit. This was not true of small low-income countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, whose capacity for further belt-tightening is limited; for those countries, however, the further rise in the external-payments deficit was reduced by the further decline in the volume of their imports from 1986 to 1987.
The highly indebted, middle-income countries, as a group, cut their imports and reduced their external deficit in 1987. The performance of the highly indebted countries in sticking to rigorous adjustment programs is of central importance to the feasibility of renewed growth in the future. Many of these countries have made major progress in implementing reforms. For example, Chile and Colombia have sharply reduced their domestic imbalances, at the same time sustaining output through policy changes that have successfully stimulated exports. Despite difficulties, Mexico has also made considerable progress in these areas, albeit at a heavy cost in terms of growth. But in a number of other countries, the reform effort has
been inadequate or has weakened, and much remains to be done to rationalize public investment and public-sector activity; strengthen incentives for domestic saving and cut budget deficits; and reduce price distortions that encourage inefficient economic activity, particularly in the foreign trade sector.
Total external indebtedness (in medium-term and long-term forms) of the highly indebted, middle-income countries and of sub-Saharan Africa again increased in 1987, both in absolute U.S. dollar amounts and as a percentage of GNP in current dollars (Table 2-8). For the latter group of countries, increases were largely the result of currency-translation effects, which added to debt in United States dollars as that currency depreciated during 1987. (In 1987, the GNP of several countries, expressed in current United States dollars, was sharply revised downward because of currency devaluation.) For the former group, increases were due largely to a combination of translation adjustments and the rescheduling of short-term debt into medium- and long-term debt. With nominal dollar interest rates up somewhat in 1987, total debt-service obligations of the universe of 109 developing countries rose; debt as a percentage of GNP declined, however, mostly the result of fast growth among certain Asian countries, which, at the same time, either reduced their stock of debt or increased indebtedness at a rate smaller than their GNP increases. As reported on a cash basis, the highly indebted countries, as a group, actually reduced their debt-service payments through rescheduling
and additions to arrears. Despite this reduction, debt-service payments on medium-term and long-term debt by the 109 developing countries rose from 1986 to 1987, while gross disbursements to them of medium-term and long-term loans dropped slightly.
The net transfer of financial resources (or the difference between gross disbursements and total debt service) continued to indicate an annual net outflow for the developing countries of well over $30 billion (Figure 2-3).
Although measures have been taken to increase the flow of resources through official channels, the total volume of financial flows to developing countries is inadequate to meet the needs for economic growth, poverty alleviation, environmental conservation, structural adjustment, and the resolution of debt difficulties.
For these reasons, the Development Cornmittee, at its April 1988 meeting in Washington, D.C., again called for an enlarged volume of financial flows to the developing countries. Committee members also agreed that these flows could be enhanced by policies and actions in both developed and developing countries alike. Improved aid coordination, further strengthening of the international financial institutions, improved prospects for commodity export earnings, and a reduction of protectionist measures would also contribute to-
ward increased resource flows, the committee noted.
In his report to the cornmittee, the president of the World Bank said, however, that most measures agreed upon by the committee in the past have not yet been taken, and urged that political support to restore the flow of financial resources to developing countries, allocated to those most in need and most able to use them well, be mobilized.
Increasing outflows of financial resources from the developing countries, taken together with the data on growth of output, exports, and imports already surveyed, add up to a pattern of shortfalls from reasonable expectations and progress that cannot be sustained in the medium term. Progress towards an acceptable solution to the debt crisis requires a resumption of growth in per capita terms in the debtor countries. Sustained expansion of GDP is essential for the restoration of creditworthiness through the debt work-out process within a realistic time frame. It contrasts with much lower rates of growth of output and sharply declining savings and investment rates experienced by most of the heavily indebted countries so far this decade, including some that have implemented strong adjustment programs. And rapid growth is vital, too, for the achievement of a sustainable increase in per capita consumption. Within these general terms of reference, therefore, 1987 must go down as an-
other difficult year for the highly indebted countries.
Nevertheless, it was a year in which the debt crisis was addressed on many fronts. During 1987 and early 1988, a number of major debtors, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Nigeria, the Philippines, and Venezuela, undertook negotiations toward some form of rescheduling agreement.
The continued reluctance of the private sector to lend to developing countries is evident from the drop in the private share of total disbursements, from about 65 percent in 1985 to 60 percent in 1987. Mostrmajor banks in the United States increased their loan/loss reserves to minimize their exposure to developing-country loans.
A number of debtor countries, especially in Latin America, exchanged debt with creditors, who took up equity holdings in local enterprises. These transactions, which saw creditors sell the debt at a fraction of the original value, were facilitated by investor purchases in secondary markets. Chile and Mexico, among others, were some of the most
successful in using such "debt-for-equity" swaps. For most countries, however, the amount of debt traded with this technique remained small compared with the amounts they owed at the end of the year.
For some countries, especially those of sub-Saharan Africa, debt rescheduling by the Paris Club provided essential breathing space. The debt service of about $9 billion that the sub-Saharan African countries as a group pay on their $93 billion debt outstanding translates into a higher percentage of GDP than is carried by any other region. In 1987, there was a special attempt to "internationalize" recovery initiatives in this region (for details, see page 35). For their own part, the African countries, under the auspices of the Organization of African Unity, held a special meeting in Addis Ababa (November 30 and December 1, 1987) to adopt a common strategy towards their mounting debt problem. The summit spelled out the need by the debt-distressed countries to channel more resources to critically needed imports for investment
purposes. To attain this goal, they urged their creditors to extend multiyear debt reschedulings covering a minimum of five years, with repayments spread over fifty years, grace periods of ten years, and zero interest rates. At the Toronto economic summit, leaders of seven major industrialized countries, as well as the president of the Commission of the European Communities, announced that a consensus had been achieved on rescheduling official debt of the low-income African countries "within a framework that allows official creditors to choose among concessional interest rates, usually on shorter maturities; longer repayment periods at commercial rates; partial write-offs of debt-service obligations during the consolidation period; or a combination of these options." Shortly before the summit, the Federal Republic of Germany had decided to forgive DM86 million of debt, and the president of France had pledged to writeoff one third of the official debt of these countries.
Approaches to the debt problem pursued during the past few years have increasingly focused attention more sharply on the links between industrial-country performance—including trade policy, as
well as GDP growth—and the scope for developing countries to increase exports and achieve economic growth. The revival of protectionism, particularly noticeable since the early 1980s, remains disquieting. While agriculture has been widely protected for many years, the fall in international prices has often not been matched by equal reductions in domestic support prices in some major industrial countries. This has led to a sharp scissors effect: Not only have the costs of protection risen, but the ever-more-tightly closed markets and subsidized exports have exerted downward pressure on already low international market prices for agricultural commodities. In manufacturing, both the growth of voluntary export restraints and the expansion of the Multifiber Arrangement have helped to stifle price competition.
The importance of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations has thus become more crucial than any earlier round. Many developing countries—now convinced of the importance of multilateral negotiations, as well as of the benefits of trade reform—are taking part in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in large
numbers and joining in—for the first time—as full negotiators. Moreover, the inclusion of agriculture and a wide variety of other trade-related barriers in the negotiations, as well as of services in parallel negotiations outside the GATT, underlines the opportunities that success could bring.
The Uruguay Round began about two years ago, and the mid-term review is scheduled for early December in Montreal. Although there is little definite result to report so far, developing-country participation and involvement in the actual negotiations remain active, the proposals by many contracting parties continue to be serious, and the commitment to success of negotiations was reaffirmed in the communique by the heads of state or government of seven major industrialized countries following the Toronto economic summit.
Official Development Assistance
Net disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) from member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)2 of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to the developing countries in 1987 amounted to an estimated $41.2 billion, up $4.5 billion in volume terms over the level in 1986. In real terms, however, making allowances for the change of exchange rates vis-a-vis the United States dollar and price changes, this amount represents a decline of 2 percent compared with 1986. Net disbursements of ODA from DAC coun-
tries represented 0.34 percent of these countries' GNR Only five countries (Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden) provided more than 0.7 percent of their GNP in development assistance, which is the target set by the United Nations for the Second and Third Development Decades. DAC countries registering double-digit increases in real terms in ODA disbursements during the year included Finland (up 14 percent) and Japan (up 13.5 percent).
According to the OECD, provisional data for 1987 indicate that non-DAC countries provided $9.4 billion in net disbursements of ODA to developing countries, a fall of $914 million from 1986. The 1987 decline resulted from lower aid disbursements by Arab and other developing-country donors. Among the latter, the OECD said, the lower level of aid was mainly due to a fall in Chinese aid, which had been exceptionally large in 1986 on account of large contributions to the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, however, continued to provide a substantial share of GNP as ODA—3.7 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively.
2 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark. Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Commission of the European Communities.
30
_i_=-
A public health clinic in Bangladesh. A third population project, supported by a $78 million IDA credit, not only seeks to reduce fertility and infant mortality, but also is designed to provide essential and affordable healthcare to the rural population.
Section Three
The World Bank-Fiscal Year 1988
In September 1987, Barber B. Conable, president of the World Bank, pledged a reinvigorated role for the Bank in assisting the heavily indebted, middle-income countries to grow out of debt and recession; in containing and managing the current economic crisis in sub-Saharan Africa and in instituting sustained adjustment programs to foster the entrepreneurial and productive potential of Africa's economies and peoples; and in supporting governmental strategies to eliminate by the year 2000 the worst aspects of absolute poverty in the populous, poor countries of Asia.
The most heavily indebted countries are still struggling to restore both growth and creditworthiness; the low-income countries of sub-Saharan Africa continue to experience severe declines in income and investment, as well as debt difficulties;
and the incidence of poverty has not receded. The World Bank, nonetheless, laid a solid foundation in fiscal year 1988 to further those pledges.
It did so by setting record levels of lending, both for project investments and for adjustment (Figure 3-1). In fiscal 1988, IBRD lending reached $14.8 billion, up $600 million from the year before. Of the total, 43 percent was cornmitted to the highly indebted, middle-income countries. IDA credits rose by $1 billion, to $4.5 billion. About half of the $4.5 billion went to countries of sub-Saharan Africa. The Bank also strengthened its catalytic role in addressing the concerns of the heavily indebted countries, significantly increased its lending to adjusting African countries and secured pledges of increased cofinancing funds to them, and focused, in highly operational terms, on the
formulation of an expanded program of action to help alleviate poverty in the low-income countries of Asia and elsewhere (Figure 3-2).
Furthermore, with the coming into effect of the eighth replenishment of the International Development Association (IDA-8) in September 1987 and of the convention establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) in April 1988, together with the approval in April 1988 by the Bank's board of governors of a recommendation by the Bank's executive board for a $74.8 billion general capital increase for the IBRD, the prospect
that the Bank can both sustain and strengthen its efforts in the coming years was enhanced.
The General Capital Increase
The resolutions authorizing the general capital increase (GCI) of $74.8 billion in the Bank's authorized capital were adopted by the Bank's board of governors on April 27, 1988, bringing the Bank's total authorized capital to $171.4 billion. The approval of the GCI on that date by Saudi Arabia brought support for the GCI to 77 percent of shareholder power, two percentage points above
the threshhold of GCI effectiveness. As of June 30, 1988, a total of 142 member countries had voted to approve the GCI; those countries represented 79.1 percent of shareholder power. The favorable vote in April came only a little more than two months after the executive directors of the Bank had unanimously recommended approval of the GCI to the governors.
The paid-in portion of the new subscriptions is 3 percent, with 97 percent callable. Under a supplementary resolution, new shares, equaling 1 percent of total authorized capital, or $1.7 billion, will be set aside for new membership applications.
As a result of the GCI, it will be possible to increase significantly the Bank's sustainable level of lending and to achieve a nominal growth in lending of about 10 percent a year over the next five or six years—that is, to more than $20 billion annually by the early 1990s.
Member governments will have until September 30, 1993, to complete their new capital subscriptions.
There have been three general increases to the Bank's authorized capital. The first, a 100 percent increase, was approved in 1959. The second, approved in 1980, totaled $40 billion and virtually doubled the Bank's capital. In addition to general capital increases, there have also been occasional selective capital increases.
Support for the Highly Indebted, Middle-income Countries
The Bank's assistance strategy in the heavily indebted, middle-income countries, designed to help restore growth to a level that will produce a gradual reduction in debt ratios—thus leading eventually to restored access to financing from private markets— and also permit a gradual increase in per capita consumption and a renewed attack on poverty, is tailored to specific country circumstances. It calls for:
— Increased lending for structural and sector adjustment;
— intensified policy dialogue with member governments on necessary structural changes and agreement on required policy reforms;
— sustained investment financing, refocused, as necessary, on rehabilitation and restructuring of projects, enterprises, and investment programs, as well as expansion of productive capacity;
— continued efforts to alleviate poverty, including measures to cushion the effects of adjustment on the most vulnerable groups; and
— increased assistance in mobilizing financial support from commercial and official lenders.
Table 3-1 shows amounts of Bank lending, by lending instrument, to seventeen highly indebted, middle-income countries that have been the subject of special attention since at least 1985 for fiscal years 1982-88.1
Participating in the design and execution of growth-oriented adjustment programs is the most valuable contribution the Bank makes to help these countries resume economic growth. The Bank's ability to deliver on its lending objectives depends, most importantly, on the close and unique relationship between it and its borrowers, which requires that the Bank be a staunch ally in the task of development.
Since fiscal 1982, Bank commitments in support of the highly indebted, middle-income countries have increased significantly (see Table 3-2). Gross and net disbursements have also increased. Net transfers turned negative, however, in fiscal 1988, the result both of an absence of fast-disbursing loans to some major borrowers (Brazil, Nigeria, and Yugoslavia) and the sharp decline in the U.S. dollar, which led to rapid increases in repayments, as expressed in U.S. dollar terms.
Of the seventeen highly indebted, middle-income countries, fifteen—all but Peru and Venezuela—have received some form of policy-based loans (see Table 3-3).
The Bank, also, has a strong interest in ensuring that the heavily indebted countries secure adequate financial resources from other creditors. Failure to do so could result in an underfunding of those programs being supported by the Bank; in turn, such an eventuality could reduce the chances of the programs' success.
Thus, in fiscal 1988, the Bank continued its catalytic efforts to help mobilize resource flows from other creditors to the highly indebted, middle-income countries.
The most important aspect of this role is the policy dialogue and direct lending that underpins the Bank's own assistance strategy to the country. The Bank is intensifying its efforts to design and support medium-term adjustment programs in the heavily indebted countries. Good programs are the sine qua non of being able to do anything in the way of catalyzing contributions from other lenders. Equally important, they are also the principal "selling point" that the Bank uses to press for support from other creditors. The Bank's own substantial commitments represent for other creditors its confidence in a country's adjustment efforts and prospective economic performance.
Apart from this, the Bank has also made use of two types of instruments in this effort: formal linkages between its own lending and that of other lenders and specific credit enhancement of selective portions of new-money packages on a limited basis where essential to complete the package.
1 The seventeen are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia.
Since 1985, the Bank has provided catalytic support to commercial banks' lending agreements with ten restructuring countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cote d'lvoire, Ecuador, Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines, and Uruguay); partial guarantees have been provided in three instances (Chile, Mexico, and Uruguay).
The Bank stepped up its efforts, both informal and through consultative groups, the Berne Union, and the Paris Club, to inform bilateral lenders and credit insurers about the adjustment programs, prospects, and financing needs of the heavily indebted countries and to mobilize resources in support of those programs, as well as high-priority investment projects.
The most complex aspect of the Bank's catalytic role, on a case-by-case basis, concerns the mobilization of resources from commercial banks.
Recent changes within the banking community have led to attempts to expand the "menu" of existing alternatives within new-money packages. These developments are being continuously monitored by the Bank—by placing the Bank's strategy to ameliorate the debt crisis on the work program of the executive board for fiscal 1989, such monitoring will continue—and were discussed with the executive board during fiscal year 1988.
After a meeting on April 7, 1988, on the subject of the Bank's strategy in the heavily indebted, middle-income countries, the chairman of the executive board, in summing up the discussion, noted that:
• There was general agreement that the basic case-by-case approach was the right one for the Bank to be following;
• Most directors supported the principle that the Bank's primary contribution must remain its policy advice and the direct lending it provides in support of sound programs;
• Most directors shared concerns about the prospects for a successful growth-oriented workout strategy given the modest growth prospects in the industrialized countries and the less favorable outlook for obtaining new money from commercial banks;
• Directors also endorsed the principle that the Bank's catalytic role should continue to evolve in line with changes in financial markets and the requirements of the indebted countries;
• A number of directors stressed the importance of careful management of the risks to the Bank in the heavily indebted countries, thus underscoring the importance of strong adjustment programs and a firm stance on appropriate burden-sharing among creditor groups; and
• Several directors also stressed the importance of close collaboration between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), noting that each institution has different but complementary contributions to make.
At its mid April 1988 meeting in Washington, D.C., the Development Committee, in discussing the problems of debt in the heavily indebted, middle-income countries, reaffirmed its support for a
case-by-case, market-oriented strategy. In its communique of April 15, the committee noted some encouraging developments in the evolution of the menu approach, including the emergence of new financing options and voluntary market-based techniques that reduce the stock of debt. The Bank and the International Monetary Fund, working closely together, were encouraged to continue their efforts in facilitating developments in the menu approach on a case-by-case basis and thereby catalyzing financial support for a growth-oriented strategy. The committee also agreed to keep the debt strategy under review so as to enhance the prospects for growth and development.
Initiatives in sub-Saharan Africa
Although adjustment efforts of the low-income countries of sub-Saharan Africa became more intensive and more widespread during the past fiscal year, most countries continued to experience declines in investment and income, and, as reported elsewhere (page 83), cereal production fell in the region after increases in the two previous years.
The Bank's current and future lending to the debt-distressed countries in Africa was set to increase significantly the percentage of total IDA-8 resources going to these countries. In addition, the share of IDA cornmitments to the region as a whole was increased. Thus, if progress with adjustment warrants, half, or about $6.2 billion, of IDA-8 resources (based on the rate of exchange prevailing at the time IDA-8 was negotiated), is now slated to be devoted to sub-Saharan Africa; of that amount, some $4.9 billion has been earmarked to the seventeen currendy eligible debt-distressed countries. This lending program should enable IDA to increase its disbursements to the adjusting, low-income countries of the region by about 50 percent, compared with disbursements based on current programming.
Fiscal 1988 may also be seen as a year in which various elements of the creditor community, in combination with the nations of the region, launched significant initiatives aimed at coping
with, and surmounting, the existing severe development crisis.
The 1987 Annual Report of the World Bank noted that the president of the Bank and the managing director of the IMF had invited representatives of the industrial countries to a meeting, early in fiscal 1988, in Paris to begin preliminary and informal discussions on the economic situation and requirements of the low-income, debt-distressed countries of sub-Saharan Africa.
It was at that meeting that the elements of a three-year program (1988-90) of debt relief and growth-oriented import financing for these African countries—particularly those implementing comprehensive and vigorous policy reforms—were first brought forward. The program established a framework for assistance to countries on a case-by-case basis through concessional debt relief, additional concessional flows from IDA, increased cofinancing of adjustment operations, and increased resources for the IMF's enhanced structural-adjustment facility. Eligibility for financing under the program was to be based on the criteria of poverty (countries had to be eligible for IDA financing only), extreme indebtedness (having projected debt-service ratios in excess of 30 percent for the period 1988-90), and willingness to adjust (countries had to be currently implementing Bank-assisted or IMF-assisted adjustment programs).
The additional external financing requirements for fourteen of the largest low-income, debt-distressed African countries that were then implementing programs of adjustment were estimated at the time of the Paris meeting at about $1.5 billion annually for the period 1988-90. This amount was considered necessary both to keep debt-service payments within manageable limits and to finance the resumption of imports needed for modest growth in per capita gross domestic product and consumption.2
The proposed "Special Program of Assistance (SPA)," as it became known, was supported at the September 1987 meeting in Washington, D.C., of the Development Committee; there, committee members strongly endorsed the Bank's proposal for an increase in disbursements to the low-income sub-Saharan African countries and encouraged donors to increase flows of concessional resources in cofinancing operations with the Bank. Committee members also strongly endorsed the IMF initiative for a substantial increase in the resources of its structural-adjustment facility to support growth-
2 The $1.5 billion figure was indicative of the need for additional action. The actual size of the additional external financial requirements (the financing gap) will depend, of course, on future economic conditions (fluctuations in terms of trade, amounts of external financing forthcoming from donors, actions on reschedulings, and so forth), as well as on the actual number of countries that may be eligible for program assistance.
Box 3-1. The Special Facility for sub-Salmran Africa
In September 1984, the World Bank published the third in a series of repot is on Ihe problems of. and prospects for sustained development in, the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Entitled Ton aid Sustained Development in sub-Saharan Africa. A Joint Program of At rion, the report called for Ihe cic.ition of a special assistance tacility to support reform programs under! taken by Afncan governments I In May 1985. the executive directors approved a resolution authorizing IDA to act as administrator of, and to accept contributions to, a Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa. The facility, which bejran operations on July I. 1985. was funded with two types of resources' direct contnbu'ions from donors and resources for special joint financing hi-jhleea countries and the Bank mobilized additional resoutces that weie to be committed over a three-year period. As of June 30, 1988. resources available for Special Facility operations totaled approximately $2 billion (see Box Table 3-la)
Funds from the Special Facility were used to provide "African Facility Credits" and special |Oint financing to IDA-ehgible countries in sub-Saharan Af-nca that had already undertaken, or were committed
to undertake, appropriate medium-term programs of policy iclorni Eligibility under this criteria was de-tcimined in a flexible manner, taking mto account the .speeilic circuni.slam.es of countries.
The Afncan Facility Credits, which were made on IDA terms, helped finance quick-disbursing lending operations in support of structural and sectoral adjustment, as well as economic-rehabilitation programs. Although most African Facility Credits were cofi-nanccd with IDA, the facility was not precluded from financing projects of its own All operations were approved and administered by Bank staff, and were subject to approval by IDA'S executive directors
Commitments, as of June 30, 1988, of Afncan Facility Credits amounted to about $1.1 billion, and approximately $800 million was allocated under special joint financing Box Table 3-lb provides a complete lisling of all African Facility Credits made through June 30, 1988.
As ol June 30, 19S8. total disbursements amounted to $1.1 billion, or almost 60 j>ercent of the commitments of African Facility Credits and of special joint financing
oriented programs. They noted that a number of donor countries had converted their official development assistance to low-income countries into grants and urged others to do the same. The committee also considered proposals for debt relief by reducing interest rates for very low-income countries, provided that they were pursuing appropriate adjustment programs.
Following bilateral consultations between the Bank and participants in the July Paris meeting, a second multidonor meeting was held in Paris on December 3-4. The meeting, involving representatives from seventeen countries, the Bank, the IMF, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Economic Community (EEC), the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), reached unanimous agreement on the need for swift and significant action to meet the severe problems of the sub-Saharan African countries, on the desirability of coordinating donor resources through cofinancing, and on the importance of concessional terms. Donor countries and international organizations then pledged $6.4 billion in concessional, quick-disbursing funds for low-income African countries with debt problems. Participants at the Paris meeting indicated that more than half of this amount would be provided through formal cofinancing agreements with the Bank in support of adjustment programs during the 198890 period, while the remainder would be provided in the form of highly coordinated financing.
The pledges not only reflected major reorientations in many aid programs to strengthen support for adjustment, but also involved additional aid flows to these sub-Saharan African countries of perhaps some $3 billion during the period.3
Donors pledging financial support were Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the AfDB, and the EEC. Several donors indicated that they would provide their cofinancing in grant form; from others, loans on highly concessional terms, or loans combined with grants, were pledged. Overall, almost three fourths of the pledged funds are to be as grants, and about two thirds are expected to be untied.
Officials attending the second Paris meeting also reviewed progress on the other elements of the SPA: increased debt relief on more concessional terms and additional concessional loans from an enhanced IMF structural-adjustment facility.
Discussion also focused on the need for close collaboration between the Bank, the IMF, the donor community, and the recipient countries in the design and implementation of adjustment programs. It was also stressed that more attention
should be given to the social dimension of adjustment, particularly the effects of policy measures on the poor, and on the need to maintain essential social programs. Participants agreed that the restoration of economic growth would require not only quick-disbursing assistance in support of structural-adjustment policies, but, also, investments to rehabilitate and expand productive capacity in these low-income countries.
The possibility of including an additional element to the Bank's initiative was also looked into. Through it, donors would provide additional financing assistance specifically for the repayment or refinancing of outstanding IBRD debt in countries that are now eligible for IDA resources only and are undertaking adequate adjustment programs. Further consultation on the proposal is now taking place with donors.
It was recognized that the SPA would not only provide additional financial resources to the debt-distressed countries but also—through strengthened aid coordination—that it would add to the quality and, hence, the effectiveness of lending. Participants agreed that several areas would require particular attention within the framework of the new partnership:
— First, donors would be consulted on the design of adjustment programs at an early stage and be given more opportunity to participate in Bank missions to the extent practicable;
— Second, the separate identity of individual donors and their financial support would be respected and preserved;
— Third, the Bank would ftirther strengthen its growing attention to the social dimensions of adjustment, building on recent initiatives it had taken jointly with the UNDP, the AfDB, and several bilateral donors;
— Fourth, there should be closer collaboration between the Bank and the IMF, in particular, through the formulation of policy-framework papers;
— Fifth, there should be an appropriate balance between structural-adjustment and sector-adjustment programs;
— Sixth, it was also important to sustain regular project-investment lending programs, as well as adjustment programs; and
— Seventh, while firm agreement was reached on the criteria to be applied in determining country eligibility for participation in the program, there
3 Additional aid is defined here as the amount of disbursements that the eligible group of countries would receive over the next three years over and above the level of assistance they had been projected to receive. This additlonality comes from several sources: some shifts from project financing to quick-disbursing adjustment financing, some reallocation of aid from other countries to this particular group of countries, and some expansion of aid budgets.
Box 3-2. The IMF's Enhanced Structural-adjustment Facility
In late December l<W. the International Monetary Fund established a new concessional lending faciluv. ihe enhanced structural-adjustment facility 1ESAF1 The ESAF is expected to provide new resources lotal-ing SDR6 billion (W.4 biUiom. bringing to SDRS J billion (SI 1 -1 billion J the IMF's resources for helping its poorest member countries undertake strong three-year niaeroeconomic and structural programs to improve their balance-ol-pavments positions and foster growth The additional resources are designed, in particular, to assist the adjustment efforts of low-income countries laced with high levels of indebtedness, as well a* those whose exports are concentrated in commodities—often one commodity—w hose prices have remained persisientlv weak in world markets.
The establishment of the ESAF—it became operational in April 1988—results from an initiative begun in the second quarter of 1 "=*S7 10 increase ihe resources available for lending on concessional terms lo debt-distressed, low-income countries facing pro-iracied baUnce-of-payments diftieuhies
Stvry -HA'-» countries, of which thirty -four are in sub-
Saharan Africa, are currently eligible, on ihe basts of annual per opua gross national product. 10 seek assistance under the previously evisung sirucTiiial-ad-lustment facility (SAFi or the ESAF. and members' access under the ESAF will be financed from the new resources, us well as amounts available under the eusting SAF. Access under the ESA.F will be determined tor individual countries on the basis of theit balance-of-paymenis need and the strength of their adjustment effort.
Constsient with the monetary character of the Fund, programs under the ESAF <mII be aimed at strengthening countries' balance-of-payments positions, as well as at promoting gTowth Like SAF programs. ESAF programs will be based on a policy-framework paper 1PFP1, which outline; the authorities' medium-term economic objectives and priorities The PFP. which is developed with the assistance of me staffs of both the Bank and the Fund, working in close collaboration, and with the governments concerned, is designed to be of particular use to donors interested in supporting the authorities' adjustment programs
would be some flexibility at the margin. Equally, it was felt that it was important to maintain flexibility on a case-by-case basis in how closely donors follow Bank and IMF conditionally for adjustment lending.
Following the December Paris meeting, the Bank consulted with donors to work out agreed cofinancing arrangements and procedures, to identify donors' preferences regarding eligible countries and adjustment operations, and to outline a joint work plan and schedule for processing these operations over the next twelve to eighteen months. Further progress on these matters was attained at a follow-up meeting held on March 15-16 in Washington. The meeting reviewed the eligibility criteria for the program, and agreed that seventeen countries should begin receiving assistance immediately.4 It is expected that more countries will become eligible over the life of the program.
On the basis of current prospects, donor cofinancing funds, when combined with increased resources from the eighth replenishment of IDA, resources from an enhanced IMF structural-adjustment facility (see Box 3-2), and rescheduling, should be sufficient virtually to close the projected financing gap in debt-distressed countries, provided that donors can achieve sufficiently high rates of disbursements.
In a parallel action, official creditors were encouraged to be flexible with regard to the rescheduling of the debt of low-income Africa. The Paris Club has shown increased flexibility in rescheduling for countries with the lowest income and the most severe indebtedness, consolidating up to 100
percent of principal and interest, as well as previously rescheduled debt service, applying much longer repayment terms to some of the poorest countries (in 1987, three countries—Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and Somalia—were accorded ten-year grace and twenty-year repayment terms), and even deferring some moratorium interest payments on an exceptional basis. However, rescheduled principal remains outstanding, and rescheduled interest amounts to new borrowing on hard terms. Although they provide immediate cash-flow relief, these reschedulings contribute to the debt overhang of these countries.
To date, it has proven difficult for creditors to arrive at a consensus on the issue of interest-rate relief on nonconcessional debt rescheduled under Paris Club auspices. Some have indicated support for the proposal in principle, but are unwilling to go it alone; they prefer an approach involving all creditors. Others have indicated problems of various kinds, including the difficulties of adopting concessional rates on official export credits and the likelihood, in some cases, that any interest-rate concessions would have to be charged against regular aid budgets. Nevertheless, discussions continue, and the Bank is hopeful that some measurable steps will be taken.
In June 1988, at the Toronto economic summit, heads of state or government of seven major indus-
4 The seventeen are Burundi, the Central African Republic, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Mozambique, Niger, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, and Zaire.
trialized goveniments, together with the president of the Commission of the European Commuriities, achieved consensus on the rescheduling of official debt of the low-income, sub-Saharan African countries. Details of that consensus appear on page 27.
All these efforts, when taken in combination with the increased funding likely to be available to low-income, sub-Saharan African countries as part of the IMF's enhanced structural-adjustment facility, add up to a very considerable achievement in the mobilization of resource flows to the region. The task for African governments, the Bank, and other donors is to see to it that these resources are used efficiently and effectively in support of well-designed adjustment programs.5
Support for Other Low-income Countries
The extra effort that is required to respond to the challenges of sub-Saharan Africa cannot come at the expense of other borrowers—least of all other low-income countries—in Asia and elsewhere. These countries still have the largest proportion of the world's population living in absolute poverty. Many of these countries, particularly in Asia, have made substantial progress in recent years, but continue to require significant support in their fight against poverty, as well as in their efforts to replace and further develop their basic infrastructure.
Great progress has been made by China. The challenge is to maintain this progress. The next five to ten years will be a difficult period of transition, as the benefits of the reform process, which is now becoming more complex and needs to be more finely tuned, are unlikely to flow as quickly as in the past few years. The Bank continues, and will continue, to lend its support to the Chinese authorities in their efforts at economic reform.
India, also, has made significant economic progress in recent years. It has raised its long-term growth rate from a two-decades-old plateau of about 3.5 percent a year to over 5 percent, a result of massive investments in economic infrastructure previously made and the trade and industrial-policy reforms more recently introduced. Against great odds, the incidence of absolute poverty is also being reduced, even if it is still high. The Bank stands fully behind India's goal of eliminating absolute poverty by the year 2000, and it intends to review with the government the options for a major increase in support of the social sectors to alleviate the worst aspects of poverty in the countryside, as well as in the urban slums.6
India, too, is entering a new phase of economic growth—one in which the full potential of its large industrial capacity must be exploited, its energy needs filled to meet demand, and an increasingly
5 Three additional initiatives, begun in fiscal 1988 on behalf of sub-Saharan Africa, are worth mentioning, as well.
First, in December 1987, a $10 million fund, the Regional Project Facility, was inaugurated to support the strengthening of government offices responsible for identifying, appraising, and monitoring programs aimed at alleviating poverty. Such programs might include measures to increase poor peoples' access to different kinds of income-generating assets, such as primary schooling, health care, and community-based credit schemes. They could also cover retraining for displaced workers and plans for lowering the costs of food for the poor.
The facility will also help finance policy studies on the social dimensions of adjustment in participating countries. These studies will identify key policy areas to be considered in programs to integrate the poor in the process of economic growth and to alleviate the transitional costs of adjustment. To improve future studies, the facility will fund the development of countries' statistical data bases. The organizers of the fund—the UNDP, the World Bank, and the AfDB—expect to launch the facility in two African countries every three months over a two-year period. Twenty-one sub-Saharan countries have expressed an interest in participating in the activities of the facility.
Second, a World Bank task force, on food security in Africa, was established to develop improved approaches to meet the goal of food security by the end of the century. One particular issue to be addressed by the task force, which is headed by the regional vice president for Africa, will be to determine what actions are needed to ensure food security for the urban poor, who could suffer from the phasing out of subsidies as nations move to make their economies more efficient.
The report of the task force is scheduled for discussion among the executive directors of the Bank early in fiscal 1989.
Third, a Council of African Advisers, whose establishment was announced during the October annual meetings, met for the first time in mid January under the chairmanship of the Bank's regional vice president for Africa.
The council's major objectives are to enhance the Bank's
understanding of development problems by tapping the views of its advisers on social, political, and economic trends in the region; to provide independent, objective analyses of the Bank's role in Africa; to offer guidance on how specific aspects of the Bank's lending activities might be improved; and to act as a sounding board for possible new ideas and initiatives.
Council members are Ojejunji Aboyade (Nigeria), Jonathan Frimpong-Ansah (Ghana). Maiiyse Issembe (Gabon), Joseph Ki-zerbo (Burkina Faso), Henry Lopes (Congo), AH A. Mazrui (Kenya), Harris Mule (Kenya), Aboubacar Ouattara (C6te dTvoire), Felicien Radilofe (Madagascar), Ousmane Seek (Senegal), Ellen Johnson Sirleaf (Liberia), Mary Tadesse (Ethiopia), Isaac Takawira (Zimbabwe), and Marcel Yondo (Cameroon).
The council was scheduled to meet again in July 1988.
6 A Bankwide task force on poverty alleviation, under the chairmanship of the regional vice president for Asia, has defined a program of action for the Bank over the next five years that is designed to help achieve the objective of eliminating the worst forms of poverty in developing member countries by the year 2000.
The report of the task force, which will be discussed by the executive board early in fiscal 1989, includes:
— A critical examination of the major issues encountered in attempting to implement poverty-alleviation initiatives through the research, policy, and lending operations of the Bank;
— Recommendations for introducing new approaches in Bank operations;
— The indicative scope of expansion in the poverty-focused operations of the Bank over the next five years and the implications of this expansion for economic and sector work, technical assistance, and aid coordination; and
— Recommendations for follow-up action to replicate and expand worthwhile programs already under way, introduce and support new initiatives, and establish a system for monitoring progress.
diversified agricultural economy must be created. The Bank will continue its policy dialogue with the Indian government to help in this critically important transitional phase. To support India in its efforts, a large part of the Bank's lending program continues to be devoted to helping the government, now entering a new cycle of investment in infrastructure, to meet its substantial needs for that purpose.
In other low-income countries, mainly in South and East Asia, but including Bolivia and Haiti, macroeconomic conditions are somewhat better than in sub-Saharan Africa. Nonetheless, budgetary deficits, tight foreign-exchange positions, and high or rising debt-service requirements—exacer-
bated frequently by natural disasters—present severe problems for the economic management of most of the countries in this group.
In the longer term, however, the basic concern of most low-income countries has to be the daunting nature of poverty and its effect on the fragile environment caused by high population growth, pervasive low productivity, and low standards of health and education. (See Box 3-3.)
The need is great for a sizable expansion of concessional assistance to these countries. The reality, however, is that IDA assistance for this group of countries is inadequate. After providing for sub-Saharan Africa, China, and India, as prescribed in the IDA-8 agreement and understandings, the Bank
Bos 3-i. The Bank's Support of Poverty Alleviation: A Status Report
Poverty alleviation has lone been, an J continues to be. central lo ihe Bank's work. In its pursuit of this key objective, the Bank has earned out evten-ive poverty-rocused research and analytical vvork and has supported a wide range of project- and programs designed 10 improve the living standards, economic potential, and prospects of the poor There have been many individual project successes, and Ihe knowledge of the problems and ways io address them have increased.
Nonetheless, j status report on the Bank's support for poverty alleviation has concluded that there is much about poverty and how io address ii effectively that is still not known, and solutions to the many causes and manifestations of poverty have yet to be found
The severity of poverty and its persistence require urgent and sustained action The status report, one in a senes ol occasional Bank reviews, on the subject of poverty alleviation, points out that although the pn-marx responsibility for action rests with the commitment and activ Hies ot countries themselves. the Bank, other official agencies, and private organisations can. also play important supporting roles.
Economic gawui is necessary to the success of long term efforts to reduce poverty Slow or no growth, financial crisis, and the necessity of undertaking stabilization and adjustment measures have reduced available options, confronted governments with increasingly difficult chokes, and further highlighted the importance of making the best use of available resources
Experience has also demonstrated, rhe Bank report adds, that because gaiwth alone is not sufficient io alleviate poverty, programs and policies must be carefully designed to ensure thai the benefits of growth reach the vast numbers ol poor in developing countries
The status report cites the importance to poverty alleviation of the policy environment, and provides examples ot improvements in policies and protects in various sectors that can enhance ihe incomes of. and benefits to. poor people it stresses the need tor eq-
uitable and practical approaches to financing social services iso that large numbers of povr people may benefit from improved sen ices at jffordable costsi and emphasizes the importance of greater participation by the poor in project design and implenicnta-uon The report also notes that a special group—the poorest 10 percent lo III percent of the population-is an important and potentially productive re source that requires special attention and programs
Substantial efforts are being made to strengthen the Bank's understanding ot the operational implications of the social costs associated with adjustment Given ihe necessity ol undertaking adiustment programs, the Bank study concludes that it is particularly imr-T-tanl that parallel actions be taken to prou-a the poor, including redirecting social expenditure- to achieve more elficient and equitable distribution and introducing other programs that will benefit the poor direcilv.
The report, in addition to providing a description of lessons and directions that have emerged from the Bank's evpenence with effort! io alleviate poverty, introduces a number of questions that might usetully be raised in addressing future Bank poverty-alleviation operations To wrui event should the Bank show flevibiliiy in existing policies in order to target spc cific groups of poor people' \re special initiatives needed to tackle ihe pioblems ul the uhra poor.' who, Lradiuonallv, have been hardest to reach .wih effective development programs' In whal ways can Bank collaboration with nongovernmental organizations be strengthened1 Should ihe Bank evpand policy -based lending in the social sectors as a means of allev taiing poverty1
The report was also intended to serve as a stepping sione lo a report of the last, force on poverty alleviation isce footnote 6i The report of this group, and a parallel report of ihe operational task force on tood security in Africa isee tootnole Si, will describe key features of Bank action programs to help eliminate the worst forms of povery in developing member countries.
is left with resources that fall far short, not only of the needs of these countries (given their populations, poverty, and quality of economic performance), but also, of the external financial requirements of the projects that the Bank is preparing with the governments of various countries.
Given the critical needs of these countries for concessional assistance, the Bank is continuing to work on a lending program that exceeds the available IDA resources in the expectation that a significant volume of cofinancing on concessional terms will be associated with IDA projects.
Developing the Private Sector
In the past few years, the Bank has expanded its efforts to help developing countries obtain the advantages of private initiatives and market discipline in promoting development. The expansion has gone beyond the traditional avenues of providing finance for private enterprise, lending for infrastructure and services, and promoting economic policies and regulations that support a competitive and efficient economic climate.
These efforts, in particular those that promote a supportive policy and regulatory environment, have included:
• Encouragement of new private investment through the Bank's promotion of such policies as duty drawback schemes for exporters, improved private-sector access to credit, removal of restrictions on private investments, security against expropriation without compensation, removal of tax disadvantages, and selective introduction of tax incentives;
• The establishment of MIGA, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (see page 80), which will insure investors against such risks as losses due to nationalization or loss of control, war or civil disturbance, and restrictions on currency conversion and transfer;
• Efforts by the IFC (a) to provide advice to governments on ways to change their policies, regulations, and institutions to facilitate foreign private investment and (b) to assist governments to use debt-for-equity swaps as a way to promote private investment; and
• Support for programs that streamline the public sector and reduce the crowding out of private activities by eliminating public monopolies, privatizing public enterprises, reorienting public agencies to provide a supporting environment for private-sector development, curbing unnecessary and inefficient public activities, and redirecting public expenditures toward priority areas.
During fiscal 1988, the Bank began to develop country strategies and new instruments, including separate operations, in direct support of private-sector development.
Thus, the Bank launched a series of private-sector assessments to pinpoint the bottlenecks to
its growth and the barriers that limit its contribution to overall economic development. Bank staff will use these assessments to work with IFC colleagues, government officials, and private-sector representatives to develop country strategies to encourage private development appropriate to each country's circumstance. In addition, a small but growing number of free-standing operations aimed exclusively at supporting private-sector development are now under preparation, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Bank also began to explore, where governments so desire, opportunities for private delivery of public services and for management contracts, leases, and joint ventures. Bank studies will provide information about lessons learned in contracting out and leasing, and Bank projects will assist governments to draw up and manage contracts with the private sector.
The Bank and the IFC increased their assistance to develop robust and competitive financial markets that can efficiently allocate capital to stimulate growth.
For these and other efforts, a focal point was created within the Bank for developing approaches and policies for private-sector development—the public-sector management and private-sector development division in the country economics department. It is the division's mandate to provide intellectual leadership and support to future Bank operations in this area.
Finally, a high-level panel, the Private Sector Development Review Group, was formed to assess and focus on the private-sector activities of the World Bank and the IFC. Chaired by J. Burke Knapp, a former senior vice president of the Bank, and composed of eleven additional members from the private sector, the Bank, and the IFC, the review group was asked to (a) assess the experience of the Bank and the IFC in supporting the development of the private sector; (b) to propose changes, policies, and initiatives that could enhance the effectiveness of the Bank and the IFC in helping to strengthen the contribution to development of the private sector; and (c) to review and make recommendations on those activities of the Bank, the IFC, and MIGA, in light of their respective articles of agreement, policies, and proposed initiatives, that might be specifically relevant to the private sector.
The group's report, together with its recommendations, is expected to be reviewed by the executive directors early in fiscal 1989.
Environmental Activities
In April 1987, a paper entitled, "Environment, Growth, and Development" was prepared by the Bank for submission to the Development Cornmit-tee at its meeting in Washington, D.C. It focused on the interrelationships between economic growth,
poverty alleviation, and environmental degradation. It stressed both the importance of addressing environmental issues in the context of overall economic policy, rather than simply by concern with individual projects, and the overriding importance of the effects of rapid population growth. The paper also emphasized the need for a collaborative effort on environmental matters, led by governments of developing countries, and involving international and bilateral agencies, as well as nongovernmental organizations.
Shortly after the paper was reviewed by the Development Corrirnittee, the World Corrimission on Environment and Development (the Brundtland Commission) issued its own report, "Our Common Future."7 Its general conclusions were broadly similar, and it is in this context that the Bank has developed its approach to environmental concerns.
During the year since these reports appeared, the Bank has significandy expanded the scope of its work in the environmental area. This work has a twofold thrust: first, to expand its efforts to address the environmental consequences of individual projects and to identify projects specifically aimed at environmental problems; and second, to stress the development of policy interventions designed to influence environmentally related behavior on a large scale. Special attention is being paid to the severe environmental problems in sub-Saharan Africa (such as desertification and salinity), to the threat of deforestation in countries with tropical rainforests, whose animal and plant life is threatened, and in other countries with an acute shortage of fuelwood, and to regional problems such as the pollution of the Mediterranean. (Details of the Mediterranean program are found on page 103.)
Other initiatives taken include a set of guidelines to help prevent industrial disasters such as have occurred in Bhopal, Chernobyl, and Basel; the adoption of a policy to support operations to conserve biological diversity; participation in a task force to identify countries with degraded watersheds and to devise appropriate interventions; a study of the effects of agricultural-pricing policies on the environment; and more emphasis on the role of women in resource management and agricultural development.
An increased emphasis on environmental work was an important element in the Bank's reorganization. Environmental units were established in all four regional offices, and a central environment department was set up in the senior vice presidency for policy, planriing, and research. The focus of the department is the environmental impact of development projects, as well as the identification of tasks of a more general nature, with priorities established by country and degree of urgency. The environment department conducts policy and research activities in a range of technical, economic, and social areas, provides support to regional staff
where conceptual guidance and/or specialized expertise is required, and establishes and maintains information systems and data bases.
Environmental work requires the consideration of complex intersectoral effects, sometimes occurring over long periods of time. In order to broaden the horizons of sectoral specialists and establish the linkages between sectoral activities and between macroeconomic policy and sectoral activities, improved understanding is needed, both of the physical and behavioral factors at work.
In addressing broad environmental issues (ranging from deforestation to global warming) and improving project design and implementation, the Bank is making a special effort to reconcile different views on important scientific and technological issues that cut across sectors and to integrate better these aspects into its work. To support this effort, a senior adviser for science and technology was appointed in the office of the vice president, sector policy and research.
In line with the recommendation of the Brundtland report that environmental management should be integrated into development planning, the major new thrust of the Barik's environmental policy is to introduce procedures whereby environment is treated as a part of normal country economic and sector work. This work initially involves the preparation, for internal Bank use, of a brief paper on each country, oudining the principal environmental issues for each country. The papers will include consideration of the nature and importance of environmental problems, their causation, and general strategies for the development of policies and investment programs designed to address them. Subjects that warrant special attention will then be incorporated into the Bank's policy dialogue, country strategies, economic and sector work, and lending activities. Several countries, which face severe environmental problems, and whose governments have shown a conimitment to improving the management of natural resources, have been singled out for more intensive study.
In addition, efforts are being made to identify projects which, while meeting the criteria of economic growth and poverty alleviation, directly address environmental issues or ease the problems of environmental management. The traditional project-by-project review process is being expanded in terms of number of staff and the range of disciplines involved. Consistent with the Brundtland Corrimission's recommendations, increased efforts are being made to anticipate the complex ecological and behavioral consequences that may stem
7 The commission, chaired by Gro Harlem Brundtland, prime minister of Norway, was established by the United Nations in 1983 to propose measures to address long-term environmental concerns.
from large-scale development projects so that appropriate measures can be taken.
The Bank's operations evaluation department is also undertaking reviews of past projects to identify patterns and trends from which to draw lessons and formulate recommendations for future operations. These include a review of renewable natural-resource management issues in agricultural projects in twelve countries across all major ecological zones, as well as a review of Bank lending for forestry development that will evaluate the role and effectiveness of forestry operations.
Parallel with the increased level of concern over environmental issues has been a rapid increase in the number of initiatives in this field by both governmental and private organizations. To facilitate improved coordination of activities and pooling of knowledge gained, the Bank is improving links with other organizations. Collaboration is being expanded with bilateral donors on operational and policy/research activities, as well as with the rest of the United Nations system and other international financing agencies through various mechanisms, including the Committee of International Development Institutions on Environment.
Equally important, the Bank is forging closer links with key nongovernmental organizations active in the environmental field, such as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, the World Wildlife Fund for Nature, the World Resources Institute (WRI), and the International Institute for Environment and Development. The Africa region of the Bank, for instance, is cooperating with the WRI in a review of policies in a number of countries to establish interdependencies between environmental and economic objectives.
Operational Approaches to Women in Development
The Bank's new approach to women-in-devel-opment (WID) issues, initiated in fiscal 1987, moves beyond studies and staff training and aims at making its efforts on WID more operational. This approach, which gathered momentum in fiscal 1988, concentrates on showing what can actually be done to include women in the development process and how inclusion, in turn, contributes to the attainment of other development objectives: economic growth, more efficient and sustainable utilization of resources, alleviation of poverty, improved family welfare, and slower population growth. It emphasizes three major themes:
• formulation of WID country-action plans for selected countries, summarizing the situation of women in, and their contributions to, the economy and its key sectors and setting forth practical recommendations for policy and lending interventions designed to improve the productivity and welfare of women;
• documentation of effective approaches and preparation of operational tools for specific sectors, such as agricultural extension for women farmers, credit-delivery systems for women, maternal-health and family-planning services, education and skills training, nutrition, and informal-sector enterprises; and
• initiation of specific sector analyses and lending operations—particularly in, but not limited to, agriculture, education, small and cottage industries, and population, health, and nutrition—to improve the involvement, productivity, status, and welfare of women.
To help advance this new approach, a women-in-development division was established in the population and human resources department of the Bank's policy, planning, and research complex. This new division is engaged in a number of activities designed to strengthen operational interest and capacity, initiate research and policy work to provide improved analytical tools, and build up operational capacity through the development and dissemination of operational tools, as well as increased and more functional staff training. These activities include:
Country WID action plans. A key aspect of the new operational approach to the Bank's effort is the preparation of countiy-action plans that are intended to provide an operational framework, based on sectoral analysis, for targeting and designing Bank assistance in a manner that will effectively reach women and improve both their contribution to economic development and the benefits they derive from it. The first of these action plans, for Kenya, has been completed, and work on three others, for India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, is under way. Similar work is planned for several countries in Africa and Latin America.
Operational guidelines. A top priority of the division's work program is the documentation of effective approaches to illustrate what works in particular sectors, beginning with agricultural extension, forestry, and credit. This is closely related and leading to the development of operational guidelines for incorporating attention to women in macroeconomic and sectoral analysis and in project formulation and design. Work is well advanced with regard to guidelines for addressing WID issues in country-economic analysis and in forestry-sector analysis and project design; work on guidelines for agricultural extension and credit has been initiated.
Women farmers and food security in Africa. The division is managing a multicountry operational-research project, financed by the United Nations Development Programme, to develop and document effective ways to improve the productivity of women farmers in selected African countries. Burkina Faso, Guinea, Kenya, Nigeria, and Zambia are currently included in the study. With
particular emphasis on food production, this program of case studies seeks to identify the constraints to productivity and to the potential effectiveness of innovative extension programs, credit systems, and input-delivery mechanisms; it will also provide insights into the effect of macroeco-nomic and sectoral policies on women farmers. Findings and recommendations will be disseminated through publications and workshops in African countries. Since this work has direct implications on overall food security, the division is also collaborating with the Bank's African regional task force on food security, particularly on the "African women farmers' initiative."
Operational support. The division provides direct support, through both sectoral analysis and project design, for operational initiatives in a number of sectors—including, but not limited to, agricultural extension for women farmers, credit-delivery systems for women, education and skills training, maternal-health and family-planning services, rural water supply and sanitation, nutrition, and informal-sector enterprises.
Safe motherhood. The WID division, together with the population, health, and nutrition division of the population and human resources department, is the Bank's focal point for its continuing support for the "safe motherhood" initiative, launched at the conference by that name that was held in Nairobi in February 1987. Collaborating with the Bank country departments, the two divisions are supporting regional and country initiatives to develop and institutionalize effective approaches to improving maternal health. This work is complemented by the Bank's participation in a UN steering committee on safe motherhood, its support for operational research through the World Health Organization, and its support for broader advocacy efforts through governments, nongovernmental organizations, professional organizations, and women's associations.
Research. A research program has been initiated, its first stage focusing on the development of an analytical framework, appropriate for Bank operations, that relates women's economic productivity to their access to education, health care, extension, and other public services. The two main ongoing research undertakings concern (a) understanding the determinants of women's participation in the economy and of their productivity in those activities and (b) identifying the factors that influence women's access to public services, such as education, agricultural extension, and credit, and on ways through which such access can be improved. This research, therefore, is oriented towards providing a stronger analytical foundation to the operational guidelines.
Staff training. An important aspect of the division's work is the effort to disseminate operationally relevant WID analyses and experience
throughout the Bank's regional departments so that attention to WID issues becomes part of mainstream operational work. This effort is supported by new training initiatives undertaken by the Economic Development Institute (EDI), which conducted its first two workshops on WID issues in agriculture and in the human-resources sector.
Training efforts now aim to go well beyond attempts at consciousness raising. As the need to strengthen Bank staff capacity to address women's constraints, needs, and requirements in Bank operations increases, so does the need for more and better training materials. The division is collaborating with the EDI and the Bank's four regions to determine the type of training that would be most helpful. The documentation of effective approaches and the preparation of operational guidelines are essential components of this training effort.
The Bank and Its Reorganization
The activities of the Bank during fiscal year 1988, as described in this section and elsewhere, took place in a working environment that had just gone through a far-reaching change.
Details of the Bank's reorganization were reported on in the Annual Report of the Bank for fiscal year 1987. The summary objectives of the reorganization were to improve Bank responsiveness and increase efficiency. To fulfill these goals, the Bank's structure and processes had to be adjusted to reflect more accurately that the Bank is fundamentally a service institution; Bankwide strategic issues had to be managed more effectively and its ability to chart clear institutional strategies improved; the internal management structure had to be adjusted to the changed priorities of the developing countries and the Bank's client focus strengthened; greater organizational prominence had to be given to the financial aspects of the Bank's work with borrowers on economic management and policymaking; and greater efficiency in all aspects of Bank operations had to be achieved.
The basic restructuring of the Bank, completed by July 1987, was implemented quickly so as to minimize the disruption of the Bank's work and to keep as short as possible uncertainties of both Bank staff and Bank clients. The short-term, intangible costs of the reorganization were perhaps higher than had been expected, but, by the beginning of calendar 1988, the issues that remained to be resolved had been identified, and constructive responses had been formulated to capture the full benefits of the reorganization in terms of greater relevance, heightened agility, and enhanced efficiency of the institution.
In the operations complex, top priority was given to the work required to deliver the fiscal year's lending program and to develop a more robust pipeline for fiscal 1989—without compromising
project quality or the quality of policy dialogue. Momentum was restored to its major work programs after an initial slowdown caused by the staff-selection process. The fiscal 1988 lending program was consistent with planning assumptions; the catalytic role of the Bank in cofinancing, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, was increased; efforts were increased to catalyze new lending and/or possible debt work-outs in the heavily indebted countries; and the foundations were laid to make economic and sector work more responsive to country needs.
The finance complex—it was not restructured in a major way—in addition to ensuring effective stewardship of the Bank's borrowings and investments in an unusually volatile environment, carried out its mandate to secure the general capital increase, began a systematic review of financial policies, and initiated the redesign of information systems.
The policy, planning, and research complex began to forge better linkages between research, training, and policy development, as well as between operations activities, and launched work programs in support of new initiatives in these areas.
The external affairs and administration complex, the hardest hit in terms of loss of authorized positions, shifted the focus of its activities from centralized production of services to the design and
implementation of strategies, policies, and processes for internal and external communications, information technologies, and human-resource management in the decentralized environment of the reorganized Bank.
While much has been achieved, some transitional problems remain, and some further organizational adjustments may be necessary. Working relationships between some units have not yet been developed to their full potential. Efforts are being made, for example, to integrate better the work programs of the technical departments—the centers for regional sector knowledge and technical skills—and the policy, planning, and research complex with those of the country departments. In the finance complex, the decentralization of the accounting function is continuing, and administration is formulating and implementing strategies in areas such as external affairs, human resources, and physical facilities.
The reorganization resulted in a reduction of 320 authorized regular positions, 287 of which were higher-level. On June 30, 1987, authorized higher-level positions totaled 3,843; on June 30, 1988, the number was 3,556.
It is anticipated that the direct costs of the reorganization will be recovered fully in about four years.
Section Four
World Bank Finances
IBRD Finances
In fiscal year 1988, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) achieved its financial-funding objectives by borrowing $10.8 billion in the world's leading markets at an average cost of 6.70 percent and an average maturity of 9.8 years. It also more than achieved its investment objectives by positioning itself to take advantage of volatility in the markets, and earned an 8.51 percent average rate of return on investments of its liquidity. Its high credit standing in all major markets was maintained by virtue of its prudent financial practices and the continued support of its member countries.
A major demonstration of member countries' support was their authorization on April 27, 1988, of a general capital increase (GCI) amounting to $74.8 billion, which is allocated for subscription by existing members. Upon subscription, 3 percent of the share value is to be paid in, and the remaining 97 percent portion is subject to call if required to meet the ITiRD's obligations for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. Subscriptions to the GCI, which are envisaged over a five-year period, will expand the IBRD's capital base to give it the capacity to increase its lending commitments over the next five to six years by about 10 percent a year, to over $20 billion a year in the early 1990s.
An additional capital increase of $1.7 billion was also approved to provide for subscription by new members.
Other evidence of member countries' continuing support included their assents to borrowings and swaps involving their currencies and markets and the continued acceptance of the D3RD's preferred creditor status.
On April 28, 1988, the executive directors adopted two modifications in repayment terms for IBRD loans committed thereafter. For middle-income borrowing countries, the grace period on loans committed from then until the end of fiscal 1991 was extended to five years; on loans committed after fiscal 1991, the grace periods will revert to the three-year and four-year periods that applied before April 28, 1988, unless the executive directors decide otherwise. The second modification, which is not limited to three years, shifts the repayment pattern for low-income borrowers—those with per capita incomes below $836 in 1986 dollars—to
an annuity basis from one in which each repayment of principal on a particular loan is of an equal amount. The changes will lower repayments due to the IBRD beginning in fiscal 1992 from what they otherwise would have been.
The modified grace periods could enhance net IBRD disbursements to middle-income countries by up to $3.4 billion between fiscal 1992 and fiscal 1995, with gradual reductions in subsequent years. The annuity system's impact will build up gradually as new loans to low-income countries now being made move beyond their five-year grace period. The annuity system is expected to increase net disbursements to low-income countries by about $5 billion by the year 2000. It is expected that these countries will be better able to assume heavier debt-service obligations to be incurred in later annuity payments. Until 1976, an annuity system of repayment applied to all IBRD loans. Restoring an annuity repayment schedule for low-income borrowing countries is expected to bring the time profile of repayments more in line with these countries' needs and financial capacities. An expected result of the change to an annuity schedule will be that the sustainable level of lending in the early 1990s will be reduced from $23.9 billion to $22.5 billion.
The executive board discussed currency-management issues during two seminars late in the fiscal year. The IBRD does not take positions in currencies. However, currency movements can create problems for the institution. In particular, two key ratios, reserves-to-loans and the remaining IBRD lending capacity ("headroom"), are subject to an exchange-rate translation risk. This risk arises because the accounts that make up these ratios have different currency compositions. In addition, there is a desire to manage currencies in the loan pool to better match borrowers' needs. During the seminars, these problem areas were identified, and alternatives for dealing with them were discussed. Staff work in this area continues, and it is anticipated that the management of the Bank will recommend, in fiscal 1989, first steps toward further improving currency management.
During the year, the financial complex of the IBRD launched a pilot program of financial technical assistance to developing countries to pass on
its experience with asset and liability management. Most of this effort in fiscal 1988 related to the use of swaps, options, and futures to manage enhanced interest-rate and exchange-rate volatility. Although most major financial institutions and multinational corporations now exploit this risk-management technology, utilizing teams of economists, financial analysts, mathematicians, and computer scientists, most developing countries, to date, have lagged behind. The program's goal is to bridge this gap using institution building as a focal point. For example, financial technical assistance was initiated in Chile. As a direct result, a full-time liability-management team was installed in the central bank of Chile, and a training program was initiated to enable use of a wide range of instruments such as Eurodollar futures, rate caps, swaps, and currency options. These efforts culminated in use of the Eurodollar futures market by the central bank to lock in advantageous interest rates for the following year. In addition to Chile, financial technical assistance is currently being extended to four other countries.
Developments in liability management. The IBRD met its target of about $11 billion equivalent of new borrowings—exclusive of the refinancing of both short-term borrowings and prepayments of debt.
Following substantial declines in interest-rate levels, the IBRD made prepayments of $4,929 million equivalent on selected issues of its securities in four currencies (yen, Swiss francs, Kuwaiti dinars, and Luxembourg francs). These would produce savings in present-value terms of about $500 million, based on estimated or actual refinancing costs at the time of the prepayment decision. In each case, the IBRD determined that exercise of the prepayment option would be financially beneficial to its borrowers and that the prepayment would not be disadvantageous to the IBRD's standing in, or future access to, the market in question. Taking this advantage in the market into consideration, the IBRD refinanced the yen borrowing prepayments, comprising $4,377 million (or 89 percent) of the total, resulting in savings, in present-value terms, of $476 million equivalent. Loans that had been privately placed with certain institutional lenders were prepaid and simultaneously refinanced with the same lenders, while public issues were refinanced later in the fiscal year.
The borrowing program emphasized continued diversification consistent with cost efficiencies, since establishing the IBRD's credit in additional markets provides added assurance that future funding requirements can be met if conditions deteriorate in selected markets. The IBRD borrowed a total of eighteen currencies, including European currency units (ECU). While continuing to do most of its borrowings in United States dollars, yen, Deutsche mark, Swiss francs, and guilders, the
IBRD increased the share of borrowings done, before swaps, in pounds sterling and other currencies. The IBRD engaged in its first public issues in the domestic markets of Denmark, Kuwait, and Spain, and it returned, after absences of two or three years, to the domestic markets of Austria, Canada, and France. It also accessed the domestic markets of Belgium and Luxembourg. The Euromarkets were a source of borrowings of Australian, Canadian, and United States dollars, as well as Danish kroner, Finnish markka, pounds sterling, ECU, and of initial public offerings of Italian lire bonds.
Many borrowings of "vehicle" currencies were swapped into other "target" currencies desired in IBRD operations, resulting in substantial nominal cost savings in the target currencies. Swaps enable the IBRD to capitalize the advantage it enjoys vis-a-vis other borrowers in some of the capital markets. The resulting cost savings are passed on to borrowers through the IBRD's pool-based lend-ing-rate formula. While the United States dollar remained the largest single swap vehicle, its relative share decreased compared with prior years as other currencies provided good sources of swap opportunities.
While broadening the range of borrowed currencies, the IBRD elected to reduce the supply of its new-issue paper in the Swiss franc, Deutsche mark, and Dutch guilder markets on which it had heavily relied in the past. At the same time, the IBRD also maintained and broadened its traditional borrowing relationships with official sources.
Other major developments in the fiscal 1988 borrowing program included:
• The IBRD's program of continuously offered, longer-term securities (COLTS) grew in fiscal 1988. The COLTS program, inaugurated in April 1986, enables the IBRD to make its securities continuously available, through its agents, to domestic and Canadian investors in the United States' medium-term note market. Although in the past few years cost considerations led the IBRD to emphasize borrowings in the Eurodollar market, the EBRD developed its COLTS program to maintain a continuous presence in the United States' domestic market. COLTS sales settled in fiscal 1988 consisted of 375 transactions totaling $1,190 million, with an average maturity of 8.5 years and an average cost of 9.10 percent.
By the end of fiscal 1988, outstanding COLTS borrowings totaled $1,714 million from 466 transactions ranging from $25,000 to $49 million and averaging $4.3 million, with an average maturity at issuance of 10.1 years and a substantial concentration in ten-year maturities. To provide broader distribution channels for COLTS and to further diversify its investor base in North America, in May 1988, the IBRD enlarged its group of COLTS selling agents by adding fourteen United States
regional and three Canadian firms to the existing group of New York-based primary agents. This was the first opportunity for regional firms in the United States to participate in the primary distribution of IBRD securities since the advent of "bought deal" underwriting procedures in 1982.
• The IBRD completed in the Euromarket a two-tranche issue of pounds sterling 350 million (about $590 million equivalent) 9-1/4 percent twenty-year bonds. The first of these tranches, pounds sterling 200 million, was the IBRD's largest sterling borrowing to date. It marked the first relaxation of the Bank of England's constraints on issue size for issuers outside the United Kingdom. With the second tranche, liquidity and secondary-market trading of the issue were enhanced.
• In the course of offering investors in the yen markets replacement assets for prepaid yen public issues, the IBRD reopened its fourth daimyo issue of 5-1/8 percent, ten-year bonds. The new bonds have the same coupon and maturity date as the previous issue and constituted the first reopening of a public issue by a nonresident borrower in Japan. The reopening, designed to enhance the issue's liquidity, created the largest yen public issue, totaling ¥ 160 billion, by a nonresident in that market.
Income, expenditures, and reserves. The
IBRD's gross revenues reached a total of $8,549 million in fiscal 1988, up $860 million, or 11 percent, from last year. Gross revenues have risen steadily during the past decade as loan and investment balances have continued to expand.
The outstanding loan portfolio, after exchange translation adjustments on nondollar assets, totaled $81,791 million equivalent in forty-seven currencies at the end of fiscal 1988. The average interest rate on disbursed and outstanding loans during the year was 7.93 percent, producing interest income of $6,535 million. In addition, commitment charges of 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances produced $263 million. Altogether, the income on loans was $6,798 million, for a total return on average disbursed and outstanding loans of 8.25 percent. (See Table 4-1.)
Since July 1982, IJ3RD loans have been made at variable rates, adjusted semiannually on January 1 and July 1, by adding a spread of 0.50 percent to the IBRD's weighted average cost during the prior six months of a "pool" of outstanding borrowings drawn down after June 30, 1982. The variable lending rate has steadily declined from its initial level of 11.43 percent (July 1, 1982) to 7.72 percent on January 1, 1988. On July 1, 1988, the lending rate was reset at 7.59 percent. Before July 1, 1982, loans were made at fixed rates set at the time of cornmitment and, accordingly, the semiannual interest-rate adjustments do not apply to these older loans. At June 30, 1988, fixed-interest rates applied to $47,969 million of disbursed and out-
standing loans and to $3,275 million of undisbursed loans.
At June 30, 1988, liquid assets aggregated $19,517 million net of commitments for settlements and cash collateral received on loaned securities, an increase of $663 million from June 30, 1987. During the year, the executive directors adopted a revised liquidity target: The level of liquid investments is to be managed so that fiscal year-end cash and liquid investments represent at least 45 percent of projected net cash requirements for the next three years unless an explicit case can be made for a substantially higher level. The previous target had suggested a liquidity level in the range of 40 percent to 45 percent. Liquidity was at 50 percent at the end of fiscal 1987 and was unchanged at the end of fiscal 1988. The IBRD's
liquidity is designed to assure flexibility in its borrowing decisions and to permit it to meet adequately its cash requirements in case borrowings are temporarily affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets.
The IBRD actively manages its liquid assets. In fiscal 1988, these investments yielded a realized rate of return on average investments of 8.51 percent and generated $1,720 million of investment income, including $135 million of net capital gains.
An additional $32 million of revenues was derived from other income, including $17 million in gains from the sale of loans.
The IBRD's net income remained at a highly satisfactory level, $1,004 million, despite a $421 million provision for potential losses on loans to eight member countries that were in arrears on debt service to the IBRD. In June 1988, the IBRD re-
viewed its provisioning policy and adopted a consolidated loan-loss provision against all loans outstanding to the eight countries in nonaccrual status. The $421 million expensed in fiscal 1988 for its consolidated provision for loan losses was based on an assessment of collection risks for each of the eight members in nonaccrual status. The eight accounted for 3.6 percent of total loans, bringing the total consolidated provision to $500 million. In fiscal 1987, $41 million was provisioned against loans to one country that was more than two years overdue in its debt service. In addition, net income for fiscal 1988 was $321 million lower than it otherwise would have been as a result of interest income not accrued for these countries.
The IBRD's expenses also include interest and issuance costs on borrowings, administrative expenses, and $53 million in contributions to special
programs. Expenses totaled $7,545 million, up 15 percent from the previous year. Costs associated with the IBRD's borrowings—interest of $6,400 million and bond-issuance charges and other borrowing expenses of $191 million—together were by far the IBRD's major expenditures. Administrative costs totaled $476 million, after deducting $263 million for the management fee charged to IDA and $3.4 million for the service-and-support fee charged to the IFC.
Net income for fiscal 1988 was $1,004 million, compared with the record high, set in fiscal 1986, of $1,243 million, 1987's $1,113 million, and $1,137 million, $600 million, and $752 million in fiscal years 1985, 1984, and 1983, respectively. The net income achieved for fiscal 1988, despite substantially increased provisions for possible loan losses and loss of income due to nonaccruals, was largely a result of the IBRD's low average borrowing costs and success in positioning the liquid-assets portfolio.
Of the $1,113 million in net income earned in fiscal 1987, the IBRD's board of governors allocated $1,013 million to the general reserve; $100 million was allocated as a grant to IDA.
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in United States dollars. In general, translation adjustments at market rates of exchange affect the IBRD's stated income and expenses, as well as its loan balances and other assets and its liabilities, including charges or credits to the general reserve. In periods when there has been substantial appreciation of nondollar currencies against the United States dollar (as in the last three fiscal years), or a substantial depreciation, the translation adjustments make comparison difficult between one year's fiscal results and those of the previous year.
The IBRD does not generally trade in any currencies for its own account. Adjustments arising from translation of currencies to United States dollar equivalents do not result in realized gains or losses as would occur with actual conversions into United States dollars. Because of this, the general reserve, rather than net income, increases or decreases annually by the amount of adjustment resulting from currency depreciations or appreciations.
In fiscal 1988, the translation of currencies into United States dollar equivalents resulted in a $55 million decrease of the general reserve, compared with a $425 million increase in fiscal 1987.
Loans: IBRD. As of June 30, 1988, the IBRD held $127,964 million of loans. This amount included $10,050 million of loans that had been approved but had not yet become effective and loans to the IFC of $1,249 million. Disbursed and outstanding loans, including $771 million to the IFC, totaled $81,791 million, an increase of $6,000 million since June 30, 1987. Of this increase, $2,699 million resulted from translation adjustments.
Disbursements on loans to countries totaled $11,636 million in fiscal 1988, $253 million more than the previous record, set in fiscal 1987. Since the IBRD began operations, it has disbursed $99,711 million to its borrowing member countries.
Repayments of principal on the IBRD's loans, based on exchange rates at the time of repayment, amounted to $8,185 million in fiscal 1988. Cumulative loan repayments as of June 30, 1988, based on exchange rates at the time of disbursement, were $36,686 million: $33,520 million to the IBRD and $3,166 million to purchasers of loans.
Borrowings: IBRD. Borrowings in international capital markets provide the major portion of the funds for the IBRD's lending operations and are supplemented by the other principal financial resources of the IBRD, which are its usable paid-in capital, accumulated earnings, and loan repayments. Total borrowings by the IBRD in fiscal 1988, which consisted of $10,537 million of new medium-term and long-term borrowings plus $295 million of incremental short-term central bank facility borrowings, amounted to the equivalent of $10,832 rnillion, about 16 percent above the $9,321 million in borrowings in fiscal 1987. (See Table 42.) The fiscal 1988 total does not include $4,377 million of yen-denominated refinancings or rollovers of short-term United States dollar borrowings that were outstanding at the end of fiscal 1987— some $2,588 million in discount notes and $1,800 million in the central bank facility. Those refinancings brought the IBRD's gross borrowings for fiscal 1988 to $19,597 million, some $5,032 million over fiscal 1987 totals.
Direct short-term, medium-term, and long-term borrowings in United States dollars contributed the largest share (33 percent) of the total borrowing program for fiscal 1988. Direct borrowings of Japanese yen (22 percent), Deutsche mark (11 percent), Swiss francs (10 percent), pounds sterling (5 percent), and Dutch guilders (2 percent) contributed to 50 percent of the program.
Other currencies accounted for 17 percent. After taking into account currency swaps, which changed the "effective" currency structure of the program, the effective borrowed currencies in fiscal 1988 were United States dollars (29 percent), Japanese yen (24 percent), Swiss francs (19 percent), Deutsche mark (14 percent), pounds sterling (5 percent), Dutch guilders (4 percent), and other currencies (4 percent).
Swap transactions. Twenty-four currency-swap transactions were settled in fiscal 1988, aggregating $1,795 million.
Of the swaps completed during fiscal 1988, 52 percent were into Swiss francs, 20 percent into Deutsche mark, 14 percent into Japanese yen, and 14 percent into Dutch guilders. The currencies swapped out of (vehicle currencies) reflected continued diversification. United States dollars ac-
counted for 23 percent; Italian lire for 13 percent; Canadian dollars for 13 percent; ECUs for 13 percent; Australian dollars for 10 percent; Finnish markka for 8 percent; Belgian francs for 7 percent; Danish kroner for 7 percent; a new vehicle currency, Spanish pesetas, for 4 percent; and Luxembourg francs for 2 percent.
Sources of funds. The IBRD sells its securities through direct placement with official sources (governments, government institutions, and central banks) and, primarily, in the private sector (markets where securities are offered to investors through public offerings, loans and private placements by investment-banking firms, merchant banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, and savings institutions). Of the 436 medium-term and long-term new borrowing operations that the IBRD conducted during fiscal 1988, including 375 COLTS transactions, 423 were in the private sector throughout the world and accounted for $8,664 million, or 80 percent, of total new funds borrowed. The other medium-term and long-term issues, totaling $1,874 million, or 17 percent of the new borrowings, were placed with official sources at market-based rates.
Short-term borrowings outstanding on June 30, 1988, net of unamortized discounts, totaled $4,663 million: $2,568 million in the discount-note market ($130 million less than the amount outstanding at the end of fiscal 1987) and $2,095 million in official borrowings through the central bank facility (an increase of $295 million over the amount out-
standing at the end of fiscal 1987). This increase accounted for 3 percent of the fiscal year's program of new borrowings.
The IBRD's securities have been placed with investors in more than 100 countries throughout most of the world. This diversity allows the IBRD flexibility in selecting the markets that will allow optimum borrowing conditions; The same diversity lessens its dependence on any specific market.
The $10,832 million of total new borrowings in fiscal 1988, including $295 million of incremental central bank facility obligations outstanding on June 30, 1988, consisted of the currencies listed in Table 4-3. In addition, $4,368 million out of $4,498 million of short-term borrowings outstanding at June 30, 1987, was refinanced during fiscal 1988.
A total of $7,866 million equivalent of debt, not including short-term notes, matured during the year. Additional debt, not including short-term notes, aggregating $4,997 million, was retired by means of sinking-fund and purchase-fund operations, and exercise of prepayment rights.
The principal outstanding, net of discounts, of the IBRD's obligations increased $4,994 million to $84,414 million as of June 30, 1988. These obligations were denominated in twenty-three different currencies and currency units. A summary classification of outstanding borrowings, by currency, at June 30, 1988, is set forth in the Summary Statements of Borrowings in the IBRD Financial Statements.
Cost of borrowings. The cost, after swaps, of new borrowings by the IBRD in the fiscal year, weighted by amount, was 6.70 percent.
The equivalent figure for the $19,597 million of gross borrowings (new borrowings plus the refinancing of $4,388 million of short-term debt and $4,377 million of yen-denominated prepayments) was 6.52 percent. The average cost of total funds to the IBRD (debt plus equity, that is, usable capital, reserves, and retained earnings) was 6.46 percent, compared with 6.73 percent for the prior year. The average cost, after swaps, of total borrowings in fiscal 1988 is categorized as follows: Fixed-rate medium-term and long-term borrowings of $10,537 million cost 6.69 percent, and incremental short-term borrowings of $295 million cost 6.98 percent. In addition, refinancing of short-term borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 1987 cost 7.06 percent.
In recent years, the IBRD has used interest-sensitive instruments (variable-rate and short-term borrowings) to take advantage of lower interest rates at the short end of the yield curve in United States dollars. In fiscal 1988, however, the IBRD engaged in no new variable-rate borrowings and barely increased its short-term borrowings. Central bank facility borrowings were increased by $295 million, and there was a $128 million decrease at face value in discount-note borrowings. Instead, the IBRD focused on opportunities for medium-term and long-term borrowings.
The cost of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings was 7.47 percent, compared with 7.73 percent for fiscal 1987. The cost, after swaps, of the IBRD's average outstanding borrowings for each of the past five fiscal years, as well as their average maturities at fiscal-year end, is summarized in Table 4-4.
Capitalization. The capital stock of the IBRD and the subscriptions thereto of its members are expressed, under the Articles of Agreement, in terms of the United States dollar of the weight and fineness in effect of July 1, 1944 (1944 dollars).
Since the effectiveness on April 1, 1978, of the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement
of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), currencies no longer have par values, and the basis for translating the 1944 dollar into current United States dollars no longer exists.
In fiscal 1987, the executive directors of the IBRD decided that the words, "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944," meant the SDR as it was valued in terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974 ($1.20635 for one SDR). That decision went into effect on June 30, 1987.
As previously noted, on April 27, 1988, the board of governors authorized a general capital increase of $74.8 billion for subscription by existing member countries and an additional $1.7 billion increase to provide for subscription to new members. Capital subscribed during fiscal 1988 is shown in Table 4-5. On June 30, 1988, the authorized capital stock of the IBRD stood at $171,362 million; its subscribed capital was $91,436 million.
IDA Finances
IDA commitment authority: The seventh replenishment of IDA (IDA-7). IDA received the last installment of the United States' IDA-7 contribution of $207.5 million in July 1987. This payment automatically triggered the release of the remaining commitment authority from the Federal Republic of Germany, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia, which had been withheld to be pro-rata with the United States. These releases, together with the United States' contribution, provided commitment authority for IDA-7 of SDR276 million. This amount was used to cover credits already made in fiscal 1987, but approved on a conditional basis pending receipt of these resources.
IDA commitment authority: The eighth replenishment of EDA (IDA-8). Contributions under IDA-8 provide the association with funds for commitment in fiscal years 1988-90. The IDA-8 became effective on March 4, 1988, when the association received notifications of participation from donors whose aggregate contributions amounted to 80 percent of the replenishment. The deposit of the United Kingdom's notification triggered that requirement.
Prior to March 4, IDA-8 credit commitments approved by the executive directors were funded by contributions provided under the advance contribution scheme. Under this arrangement, contributing countries could make an advance of one third of their total contributions to IDA-8 prior to the effectiveness of the replenishment. The advance contribution scheme became effective on September 24, 1987, upon the receipt of notifications from seven donors (Canada, Denmark, Japan, Kuwait, South Africa, Sweden, and Turkey). This provided IDA with commitment authority of SDR1,139 million. Subsequently, eight more donors (France,
Hungary, Iceland, the Republic of Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, and the United States) participated in the advance contribution arrangements until the date of the replenishment's effectiveness. Additional releases after that date were made by Australia, Austria, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, and Mexico.
Overall, the association made credit commitments in fiscal 1988 amounting to SDR3,301 million; resources available for commitment during the year included (a) SDR76 million ($100 million equivalent) transferred to IDA in fiscal 1988 from the 1987 net income of the EBRD and (b) a surplus of SDR46 million carried over from IDA-7.
Review of credit charges. In March 1988, the executive directors of the association undertook a review of IDA's credit charges. The executive board approved a variable commitment-fee structure within a range of 0 percent to 0.5 percent. Beginning in fiscal 1989, a reduction in the commitment fee was approved from 0.5 percent to 0 percent. This change is applicable to new credits, as well as to those made prior to fiscal 1989. The appropriateness of the commitment fee will be reviewed on an annual basis.
The executive directors also put in place a non-accrual policy similar to that of the IBRD—that credits in arrears for more than six months should be put in nonaccrual status and that the income from these credits be recognized only when received.
Disbursements by Source of Supply
Projects financed by the World Bank involve foreign and local expenditures necessary to achieve project goals. Disbursements are made to cover specific foreign costs and, in addition, are often made to finance some local expenditures.
Through the end of fiscal year 1988, more than 64 percent of IBRD and IDA disbursements covered goods and services provided directly by suppliers located outside the borrowing country. While most foreign procurement comes from suppliers in developed member countries and Switzerland, developing-country suppliers have become increasingly effective in winning contract awards. Through the end of fiscal 1984, disbursements amounted to 7.5 percent. During fiscal year 1988, the amount was about 15 percent.
Table 4-6 shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements to the end of fiscal 1984, for each
of the next four fiscal years, and to the end of fiscal 1988.
Locally produced goods and services usually include a significant foreign-exchange component. Cumulative local disbursements increased from 33 percent at the end of fiscal 1984 to about 40 percent at the end of fiscal 1988. Table 4-7 shows disbursements made in fiscal 1988 by the IBRD and IDA for local procurement from the top forty-four borrowing countries and disbursements made in respect of goods, works, and services procured from them by other borrowers.
Table 4-8 shows IBRD and IDA foreign disbursements by supplying Part I and selected Part II countries.
Table 4-9 is a record of JBRD and IDA foreign disbursements for goods, works, and services from Part I and selected Part II countries in fiscal 1988.
Cofinancing
In fiscal 1988, the volume of cofinancing continued to increase and reached $6.6 billion, $1.4 billion over totals reached in the year before. As in previous years, almost half of all World Bank-assisted projects attracted some form of cofinancing (see Table 4-10).
The largest source of cofinancing continued to be official bilateral aid agencies and multilateral development institutions, which, together, ac-
counted for $3.2 billion during the year, an amount about $500 million more than in fiscal 1987. Export-credit flows reached $2.4 billion, including $1.2 billion in untied funds from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Commercial-bank financing in fiscal 1988 totaled $952 million, including two commercial-bank loans, aggregating $400 million (with World Bank direct funding of $50 million), that were arranged in 1988; the proceeds were used to fund projects approved in fiscal 1987 in Algeria and Turkey.
The Bank placed great emphasis on the coordination of its lending activities with efforts undertaken by other multilateral and bilateral donors, in particular, through cofinancing consultations, which, in fiscal 1988, were held with all donors with whom the Bank has entered into cofinancing framework agreements. Consultative trust-fund arrangements have been established with twenty-three donors, of which nine were concluded during fiscal 1988. Under these agreements, donors have committed about $15 million in grant funds to support World Bank operational work.
The third and final year of implementation of the Special Facility for sub-Saharan Africa yielded SDR87 million in special facility credits and SDR182 million in special joint financing. Under the newly established special program of assistance (SPA) for the debt-distressed, low-income coun-
tries of sub-Saharan Africa, about $6.4 billion was pledged at a special donors' meeting held in Paris; of this amount, more than half is to be made available by the donor community through cofinancing World Bank projects during the period 1988-90. During fiscal 1988, approximately $200 million was committed for such cofinancing under the SPA.
Untied resources from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (Exim Bank) for cofinancing Bank-assisted projects (under Japan's recycling plan) continued to be a major capital source. During fiscal 1988, six untied loan agreements were concluded between the Exim Bank and World Bank borrowers for $1.7 billion (equivalent). Consultations between the Bank and the Exim Bank during the year identified further World Bank operations that might be able to utilize a comparable volume of cofinancing in fiscal year 1989.
The Bank arranged a meeting with the export-credit agencies of the industrial countries and their guardian authorities in May 1988 as a part of an ongoing dialogue with other major capital providers. The enhanced contacts between the Bank and export-credit agencies over the past few years have contributed to the adoption by these agencies of policies that are increasingly supportive of the adjustment efforts of the highly indebted, middle-income countries. There was broad agreement at the meeting that this dialogue should continue and be strengthened in the coming years. The meeting also considered a new aspect to be explored further: ways in which the group of World Bank institutions (the IBRD, IDA, the IFC, and the newly established MIGA) might facilitate greater export-credit support for private-sector initiatives in developing countries.
62
Transplanting rice on the North China Plain. Bank lending to China for agricultural projects totaled more than $700 million in fiscal year 1988.
Section Five
World Bank Policies and Operations
The World Bank's Experience with Rural Development
The World Bank's lending strategy in support of rural development grew out of a conviction that any attempt to alleviate poverty in developing countries had to focus on the rural poor. Of the estimated more than 630 million "absolute poor" living in developing countries in the early 1970s, 80 percent lived in rural areas—mostly in Asia.
It was also increasingly recognized that the "trickle-down" theory of economic development was not working. This recognition was reinforced by the occurrences of food shortages in South Asia in the mid 1960s, which underscored the fact that not only were the majority of rural people making little or no economic progress, but also, that food production required particular concerted attention.
The simultaneous emergence of "green-revolution" technology, which promised relief through rapid growth in production to smallholders and large-scale farmers alike, provided an optimistic underpinning to the belief that a scale-neutral, production-led rural-development investment program could have a widespread effect on both rural poverty and food production.1
The Bank deliberately embarked on its rural-development lending program without clear answers to many issues related to technology and the delivery of inputs. The risks were known, and the need for improvisation and experimentation was acknowledged. Indeed, in his 1973 annual meetings speech, Robert S. McNamara, in formally unveiling the Bank's rural-development strategy, noted that the Bank would learn from failure.2
In fiscal 1988, a review by the operations evaluation department (OED) of the Bank's experience since 1965 with more than 500 smallholder rural-development projects broadly concluded that the strategy, while successful in some ways, was also studded with problems.3 Thus:
• Half of agricultural-sector lending went for rural-development projects—as intended; millions of rural dwellers did benefit from the projects; food production in many countries significantly increased as a result; and valid approaches to help subsistence farmers were developed.
• Rural-development efforts were, however, also adversely affected by weaknesses in both project design and execution.
The OED review's tentative conclusions (tentative, since about two thirds of the projects have yet
to be audited and very few full impact studies have been done to evaluate the effects on beneficiaries of projects in operation) included the following:
• The Bank proceeded rapidly from a generalized global strategy for rural development, with multiple objectives and modes, to project approval within a rapidly expanding program. Greater differentiation among regions and countries, with some selectivity of project types and more pilot projects in many cases, could have resulted in better approaches and projects.
The most conspicuous project failures were in the large group of area-development projects, especially the many in sub-Saharan Africa, where only a minority succeeded, even to some degree. This set of projects—the only type of rural-development project designed explicitly to attack poverty on a broad front—had quickly proliferated across countries, sometimes beyond the capacity of their already stretched bureaucracies to manage them properly.
• Rural development projects were more successful—as were other projects—when government commitment to them was strong. Full governmental commitment to a project should be assured at an early stage.
• Where appropriate national policies are absent, the ability to sustain even successful projects is doubtful. Pursuing a project-based rural-devel-
' The limited potential of green-revolution technology outside irrigated areas did not fully become apparent until later.
2 The goal of the Bank, as formally announced in 1973, was bold. It stated that within a fast-growing sectoral emphasis on agriculture, not less than half of agriarrturallending was to be for rural-development projects—that is, projects targeted to help directly the rural poor (but only indirectly the landless, who had few productive assets beyond their hands and backs). Ambitious productivity objectives were set (5 percent increases annually in output by 1985), as were parallel objectives involving the provision of services and social investments—health, education, clean water, shelter, communications, and the like.
3 In the period, fiscal 1965-86, the Bank approved a total of 1,162 agricultural projects. Of that total, some 574 have been classified as rural-development projects (seventy-six retroactively for those approved in the 1965-73 period). Though drawing on the experience of the total of rural-development projects, the main analytical base of the OED review was formed from the 184 rural-development projects that have been audited.
opment strategy in the absence of benign macro-economic policies was often a mistake.4
• The sustainability of benefits from rural-development projects—even in some of the minority of successful area-development projects—remains open to question, particularly in those projects that were overseen by independent project management and those in which facilities were financed to a higher standard or intensity than in the economy as a whole.
Ultimately, the OED review noted, the effectiveness of rural-development projects must depend on their sustainability—on their capacity to generate expected benefits over the longer term. The review pointed out that most Bank-assisted rural-development projects are too recent to permit an evaluation of their sustained performance. An earlier review of the impact of twenty-seven agricultural projects, however—fourteen of which could be regarded as poverty oriented and which were considered to be successful at the time disbursements were completed—concluded that although the poverty-oriented projects, overall, fared better than the other agricultural projects in the longer term, all four projects that dealt with area development failed to produce the results expected of them in the longer term. Projects that are complex—characteristic of area-development projects—in a weak administrative environment, the most recent OED study pointed out, have higher risks of not being sustained.
The study noted that the Bank has drawn some positive lessons from its experience with rural development and that, over time, the program has evolved and continues to evolve as problems are identified.
Both the institution and recipient developing countries have learned from implementation failures, and changes have been made to project design and scope to refocus them on achievable objectives. There is also now general recognition that typical area-based rural-development projects require a longer time frame than five or six years. The short time horizon of traditional Bank projects, combined with the Bank's reluctance to commit funds to long-term programs, resulted in a lack of realistic sequencing of rural-development operations. A fifteen-to-twenty-year time horizon would have allowed a stronger emphasis on institutional and policy matters in the projects' earlier start-up phases. This, and other considerations have already resulted, throughout the Bank, in the use of longer disbursement schedules.
The Bank is also financing second-phase and third-phase projects designed either to improve the sustainability of successful projects or to make the best of sunk costs in those projects that are less successful. In Africa, there has been a movement away from area-based projects toward support for input delivery systems, research, and extension.
It is now recognized within the Bank that an experimental approach to rural development may be required in some countries and that pilot projects may be a necessary first stage.
Subsequent to the discussion of the OED report, the Bank's agriculture and rural development department, in reaffirming the full commitment of the Bank to the alleviation of rural poverty as a central element of the institution's development efforts, noted that the Bank has also addressed other areas in which, based on the audited projects, the OED found room for improvement. Processes that permit the closer involvement of beneficiaries in project design and implementation are now increasing; it is generally recognized that reliance on contract expatriates to staff the management team of rural-development projects has its limitations; collaboration with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) is expanding, and it is Bank policy to encourage the efforts of borrowing countries to invite NGOs to participate in project design and to ask that borrowers involve NGOs in bringing about beneficiary participation at the grass roots.
The Bank is also now addressing project-related macroeconomic issues in far greater detail—through the context of policy-based lending—than it did a decade ago. In particular, it is now realized that in the absence of appropriate national policies, the ability to sustain even successful projects is doubtful, and that pursuit of a rural-development strategy in the absence of benign macro policies is a recipe for failure.
*        * *
The OED review was discussed by the Bank's executive board, and after discussion, the report was disseminated with the object of having a wide discussion of its findings and conclusions. On the recommendation of the board, the report was published in English;5 the French and Spanish editions will be published early in fiscal 1989. Dissemination of the report was begun during the fiscal year under the joint auspices of the OED and the agriculture and rural development department. The OED sponsored a seminar for evaluators at which donors shared their respective experience with rural development. The findings were discussed by the Development Assistance Committee's Expert
4 In discussion at the executive board on the OED study, it was noted that the new macroeconomic environment throughout much of Africa—characterized by a realignment of exchange rates and producer incentives, the breaking up of marketing monopolies, increased efficiency of marketing parastatals, and reduction of restrictions on the free movement of grains, for example—is having a profoundly stimulative effect in rural areas, including those in which supposedly "failed" projects were being implemented only a few years ago.
5 World Bank, Rural Development: World Bank Experience, J965-86. April 1988. 132 pages.
Group on Aid Evaluation on June 7 and 8. The expert group then submitted a report, with specific recommended follow-up actions, to the Development Assistance Committee for consideration.
Interim Report on Adjustment Lending
In a worsening external environment, the need for adjustment lending remains strong, and the process of adjustment is accelerating in the developing countries. At the same time, the World Bank is tailoring its adjustment lending to fit better the requirements of its borrowers and is applying the lessons of past lending to improve its advice to governments undertaking programs of policy reform—although meaningful measurements of the
success of adjustment lending remain elusive.
These are some of the conclusions reached in the third in a series of reports on adjustment lending— the first two were written in 1984 and 1986—issued in fiscal 1988. The most recent report reviewed recent trends in adjustment lending, especially in the design, monitoring, and institutional aspects of adjustment loans, and summarized existing evidence on adjustment lending's effects on country economic performance and on the social conditions of the poor.
The need for adjustment lending—evident since the late 1970s in the oil-importing developing countries and since the early 1980s in many oil-exporting developing countries, as well—has not
Box 5-1. Protecting the Poor during Periods of AdjuMmenl
The Bank's early support lor economic adjustment focused on improving the elfieiency of resource aJlo cation and strengthening insntutions uiih a view to restoring growth and improving the balance ol payments in economies lacing severe economic Jiffieul-lies This support reflected the judgment that quick restoration of grow in was essentia! to help ihe poor.
More recently, building on experience with adjustment programs implemented in the early 1980s, the Bank has broadened u- suppon lor adjusting eoun ines 10 include u more direct concern with the social eftects of adjustment
Today, the main *a» ihat the Bank - adjustment lending has a direct elleci on the poor is ihrough reviews and revisions ot public expenditures An adjustment programs rationalization of public e.pendi lures and imosimeni can help to eliminate unecoi' omie proiects. reduce inerteeiive and wastc-lul programs, and redirect iocijI spending more toward ine poor. Where appropriate the Bank follows up these reviews with Irn.fing opci-iiion.
The Bank is also increasing support for comporis.i-lory programs to ameliorate ihe social cosis ol ad|Ust menl \ growing body of experience in the Bank and elsewhere shows that properly largeied compensator programs are feasible in widely different situation*
The Bank is also cooperating with oiher interna nonal and bilateral agencies, as well as wnh nongovernmental organizations iNGOm. ihat have experience in implementing such compensators program? In particular the flexibility, local kn"i» lodge, and stall commiimeni ol NGOs often allow them to administer social programs more efficiently than mam official agencies NGOs working in conjunction with borrowing member countries, jre already involved in more than H«J Bank project covering urban upgrading. low-i.o-1 shelter, agricultural eooperanves. ullage .vaier supply, and primary health care
In liscjl 1488. the Bank helped io finance two proiecis—in Bolivia and in Ghana—that act directly to protect ihe poor dunns periods oi adjustment.
• For more ihan two years, ihe Bolivian go>ern ment has sustained in uphill effon io carry oui a
comprehensive Kononut ¦stabilization adiusimem and reacnvaiion program. It has achieved considerable success, seen against the economic turbulence and decline of the preceding era Thus, whereas in October I9S5. inflation had reached 2-1.LUX) perceni. by late 1°-S7. it had slowed lo 10 perceni Gross domestic product, which had declined even, year since I9S0. grew bv at least 1.5 percent in 19S7
Since 198b. the government has increasingly turned its attention to ihe short-term unemployment problems linked io its depression and stabilizjDon measures, as well as to the longer-ierm need to improve social conditions An emergency social lund 1ESF1 was scl up. aimed at providing emergency relief and carrying out an employ ment generating program over the three years 19ST-89. a- a bridge until recovery gams momentum
In June 1987. some ill) million in IDA funds wete approved in support ol the ESF's lirst year of opera lions, wnh the intention of following this operjlion up wiih one that was larger
March 1988 saw support given through a V million IDA credit lor the tSF s second and ihud years or operation. The credn lir.ances a range of small-scaie subprojecls sponsored by municipalities, community organizations, and NGOs Subprojecis fall into four broad categories social assistance ifood and nu-Inuon. basic health services, vocalional training and support to educationi. social infrastructure idnnking w-jter and sewerage facilities, repair nf schools and health posts, low-cosi housing, and cultural proiect-i: economic lnfrastruciure imaintenance ot rural roads, si reel paving and oiher urban improvemenis. imgj-lion erosion control loreslation and oiher eonstruc-noni. and support lo production iworkms capital c red it and other forms of support lo cooperatives and small manutacrurersi
The subproiects under ihe 15° million project will create an estimated 21,000 manyears ot direct em ploymeni iihe ennre program may create between 35.000 and 50.000 manyears of employment! In addition, about 400.000 people will receive food, improved health care, and other service; ifrom 6OO.O1M
diminished. In the past two years, capital inflows have continued to decline. Most commodity prices have softened despite some recovery in 1987. World trade has remained sluggish. Moreover, the reform efforts in the developing countries have been diluted by increasing protectionism during this decade in the industrialized countries: By 1985, industrial countries' nontariff restrictions covered 20 percent of their imports from developing countries, and the industrial countries maintained tariff rates above 10 percent on about 10 percent of imports. These exogenous factors continue to spotlight domestic structural weaknesses that had accumulated over the years as a result of poor economic policies and weak institutions.
The characteristics of Bank-supported adjustment lending have changed: While structural-adjustment loans predominated early on, in the past four years sector-adjustment loans have come to form the majority of adjustment lending. This reflects, in part, a broadening and deepening of the adjustment process as countries move from an immediate concentration on overall macroeconomic to sectoral issues. At the start of their adjustment process, most countries faced severe balance-of-payments problems that required immediate and radical changes in overall incentive structures. These changes were supported by International Monetary Fund arrangements and, on the Bank's side, by structural-adjustment loans and, in recent
ro 950.000 people under [he enure program), and ihe users ol the new inl'rastruelure and housing v, ill en|oy not only better sannation and lower transport costs, bui also, will be subject to fewer effects of mountainside erosion
Assistance lo Bolivia's emergency soua! tund is also being provided b> the Inter-Amencan Develop ment Bank, the United Nations Development Programme. Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany. Italy the Netherlands. Switzerland the United Kingdom, the United Stales, and ihe Save the Children Fund.
• During the 1970s and early 1980s, the economy of Ghana expeneneed severe decline Real incomes plummeted, and the vast majority ot Ghanaians many of whom were already in difficult economic conditions, saw their living standards decline further. The country's social and economic infrasiruciure fell inio disrepair, and a lived nominal exchange rale contributed lo declining exports and periodic fnreign-ev change enses The governments economic-recovery program 1ERP1. begun in 1983 and which, has been supported by several IDA credits, has managed to reverse this downward irend and place ihe economy, once again, on the path toward growth Bui. despite promising medium-term to long-ierm prospects for growth, the economy is still characienzed by widespread poverty and economic hardship. Moreover ihe ERP cannot alleviate ihe economic hardship of many ot" the poor and vulnerable groups in the short run Indeed, some componenis of the ERP have exacerbated, and will exacerbate, their economic problems in the short run. thus threaiening to impede the sus-lainabtlity ot" ihe recovery program nsell
The government"* response lo this acute, short-term problem has been to develop a program ol'acuon lo mitigate ihe social costs ol adiusimeni—especially among ihe urban and rural poor who have suffered so during [he pasi decade and who now lace increased competition in the labor market a* a result of measures lo retrench 45.000 persons from the public service and 20.000 from the public-enterpris.e sector during ihe three-year penod. 1987-89.
The projects within the program of action vvould include labor-intensive public-work- projects that provide employment in the turn1 and urban unemployed and underemployed, while improving their economic and social infrastructure: a supplementary feeding and nuinuon-educaiion program to address [he nutritional needs of mothers and children in poor households: projects to improve the access to education services and facilities: a scheme to provide essential drugs io address the health needs of the poor, and a strategy io help ihe newly unemployed find productive jobs.
In July 1987. the Bank participated in an interagency workshop with the Ghanaian government's Social Sector Task Force that locused on five main area* for possible intervention— employ ment and redeployment; lood, nutrition, and health, education and adult literacy. small fanner; and women in development ind shelter Some seventeen short-ierm intervention- were identified, among them a spetial. two-year program of priority labor-intensive urban works, the so-called pnoriiy works project which would build on aciivnies no* being undertaken under the IDVassisied Accra Rehabilitation Proieei
Siv months later. SHI ft million in 1D^ funds were approved io help finance the project, which, authorises believe, will generate about 10.000 productive lobs over a iwn-year penod The iwo mam components of the protect — infrastructure rehabilitaiion and maintenance in lour cities, together with an urban-upgrading component in .Vera are essential Hems that need lo be undertaken in any case and are justified on their own nienis Bui about three quarter- of proiect expenditures will direelly or indirectly benelii the urban poor ibeyond ihe element ot employment! through reduced vehicle-operating costs travel lime, traffic congestion, and accidents, improved health, sanitation, water supply, streei lighiing. and other amenities, an improved environment, and increased housing supplies.
Others contributing to the financing ot the project include the Federal Republic of Germany iDMIO million i and the OPEC Fund for Internationa! Development i$5 million)
years, increasingly by broad sector-adjustment loans.
As each country's adjustment process has developed, attention has often turned to detailed sector-specific reforms that focus as much on investment structures as they do on overall incentive policies. These reforms have typically been supported by "hybrid" loans, comprising a package of sectoral reforms, as well as one or more investment components. Compared with lending early on in the adjustment cycle, these hybrid loans have a greater focus on in-depth restructuring of sectoral investment programs, policies, and institutions. The hybrid operation establishes a sectorwide policy framework and a consistent set of investment pri-
orities, some of whose components may be financed by a subsequent series of investment operations that are approved only if the whole sector program remains on track.
The Bank has adopted several measures to improve the effectiveness of adjustment programs. Disbursements of Bank finance are now triggered less by "statements of intentions" to reform than by "tranching," in which specific, agreed actions must be taken to trigger the release of remaining commitments, or by "front-loading" of condition-ality, in which borrowers take action before the request for board approval of a project is made. The Bank has also learned that a series of adjustment loans, each of which focuses on a well-de-
fined set of implementable policies, is a useful practice.
Conditionality in adjustment lending has been enhanced through the implementation of two recommendations, made in 1986, by the Joint Audit Committee's Subcommittee on Project Performance Audit Results—that (a) greater care be taken in distinguishing between those actions to which governments have committed themselves and those that are still under discussion and that (b) the Bank should assess more carefully governments' commitment to implement agreed-upon reforms. Thus, the Bank is now giving higher priority to monitoring the implementation of adjustment programs and is paying greater attention to the details of implementation arrangements.
The 1988 study proposes that consideration be given to cautious but wide use of detailed indicators to measure the "output" of policy change. The measurement of progress by agreed-upon indicators would make it easier to judge both the success of adjustment programs and the extent to which conditions are being implemented. The indicators could measure the degree of implementation of new policies—not broad macroeconomic outcomes that are dependent on too many exogenous factors to be a useful guide.
Any measurement of the macroeconomic effect of Bank-supported adjustment programs is a difficult task: The benefits of adjustment programs are difficult to discern in the short term; adjusting economies are subject to outside forces, whose effects are difficult to distinguish from those of adjustment; and differentiation between the effects of different policies which, nevertheless, form a part of an integrated package, is particularly difficult.
Bearing in mind these limitations, key macro-economic indicators for the sixteen countries6 that undertook Bank-supported adjustment programs during the period fiscal 1980-84 have been examined. While no causal connection can be made with adjustment programs, indicators for both gross domestic product and exports show relatively strong growth for about two thirds of the countries after adjustment programs were introduced; twelve of the sixteen reduced their current-account deficits; and nine reduced their fiscal deficits over their adjustment periods.
Increasing attention is also being given to aspects of institutional change in adjustment loans. There are difficulties involved in reforming institutions, however. Reform takes time—time beyond the life of fast-disbursing adjustment operations. This time factor works against the reform process, which can thrive only in a long-term environment characterized by supportive political will.
The Bank is also closely monitoring the effect of economic crisis and consequent adjustment on the poor—depression of output, employment, and consumption; falling terms of trade for those who pre-
viously benefited from subsidies and other forms of protection from market forces; and the time lag in the movement of productive resources among alternative uses in response to changes in relative prices.7 These transitional costs are—at least in the aggregate—largely unavoidable. Economic crisis forces some form of adjustment, whether planned or not. For well-planned and timely adjustment, what outweighs the inevitable costs are the long-term benefits of the more rapid and viable growth that results. To mitigate the immediate pain, social expenditures should be refocused, to the extent possible, towards the poor, and cost-effective compensatory programs can be introduced, particularly in the areas of nutrition and employment (see Box 5-1).
Although the volume of World Bank adjustment lending in the next several years may be in the region of 25 percent of the total, fast-disbursing adjustment loans, as noted earlier, are increasingly incorporating specific investment components that have a longer implementation period.
* *
Following discussion by the executive directors on the interim report, the chairman of the executive board concluded that the very useful observations and suggestions by the directors would be taken into account in preparation of a further report on this subject, to be completed in the first half of fiscal 1989.
The discussion had raised a large number of extraordinarily important questions, the chairman continued. Some areas of broad concern included the question of the Bank's creditworthiness and the role of the 25 percent share of adjustment lending and, to some extent, the balance within each country of adjustment and investment lending. Another question concerned the interaction between the Bank and the Fund. In addition, there was an array of what might be called "design issues." Many speakers had stressed the importance of drawing lessons from experience and learning from both successes and failures in designing new programs. The importance of external factors such as protectionism was also stressed, and it was clear that the overall economic environment would have to be dealt with very thoroughly. Nearly all the speakers stressed the importance of the participation of borrowers in the design of adjustment programs from
6 Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire, Ghana, Jamaica, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Malawi, Mauritius, Morocco, Pakistan, Panama, the Philippines, Thailand, Togo, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.
7 Of twenty-five countries surveyed in both low-income Africa and those that belong to the highly indebted, middle-income countries, three quarters suffered negative per capita growth in gross domestic product and private consumption in the first half of the 1980s.
the beginning and of the commitment that governments must show to these programs if they were to be successful.
There was also a series of questions—to be explored further in the next paper—having to do with sequencing of loans, size of loans, tranching, evolution of the hybrid loan, and how long adjustment lending should continue. Some directors asked that the Bank spell out further how it monitored and measured the effectiveness of adjustment loans, and a wide variety of reactions was expressed concerning the macroeconomic indicators and the crude attempt to indicate what the achievements had or had not been.
Education in sub-Saharan Africa
Continued progress in education in sub-Saharan Africa is today under siege by a combination of forces over which the region's education systems have no control: explosive population growth rates and economic decline. Because of those forces, education policies must change profoundly in many countries to end enrollment stagnation, eliminate inequality of access, and turn back the erosion of educational quality.
These are the key findings of "Education in Sub-Saharan Africa," one in a series of studies that the World Bank has prepared to stimulate discussion of economic and sectoral policies for Africa in the 1990s and beyond.8
The study, prepared after broad consultation, both in Africa and in the industrialized countries, has three main objectives: to identify and describe common problems and issues of educational development in Africa, to provide African leaders with comparative data and analytical tools for developing their own educational policies and priorities, and to suggest policy direction for consideration by national authorities, as well as donors.
Today's crisis in education in the sub-Saharan Africa region comes after more than two decades of steady, spectacular progress.
Between 1960 and 1983, the number of students enrolled in African institutions at all levels quintupled to about 63 million. The substantial expansion of education since independence increased the participation of some groups that previously had little or no access to formal education.
This massive educational expansion substantially improved the human capital stock. The estimated average educational attainment of working-age men and women in the median African country increased from less than a half year in 1960 to more than three years in the early 1980s. The adult literacy rate in the median country rose from about 9 percent to 42 percent during the same time span.
In the decade of the 1980s, however, enrollment growth has slowed down, especially at the primary level. There, the rate of growth has fallen from 8.4 percent a year during 1970-80 to one that is cur-
rently less than the increase in the rate of population growth among primary-school-age children.
Complicating the problem of stagnating enrollments are the low levels, and recent erosion, of educational quality. Cognitive achievement among African students is low by world standards, and there is some indirect evidence of recent further declines.
The issues of enrollment stagnation and low educational quality are surfacing at a time when economic decline has necessitated significant cutbacks in public spending—from $10 billion to less than $9 billion for education alone during the period 1980-83.
What can be done? The Bank study neither prescribes one set of educational policies for all of sub-Saharan Africa nor does it propose specific educational investments. Rather, it offers a set of policy responses commensurate with the severity of the problems and presents a framework within which countries may formulate strategies tailored to their own needs and circumstances. The study does conclude, however, that every country-specific package should contain, in varying proportions, three distinct dimensions: adjustment, revi-talization, and selective expansion.
Adjustment. Adjustment is likely to take two main forms, the study points out: containment of unit costs and diversification of sources of finance (cost-sharing).
The most important component of adjustment, the containment of unit costs, should be aggressively pursued at all levels of education—in both the capital and recurrent account. Options for reducing capital costs include minimizing expenditures on unnecessary buildings, using low-cost construction methods and local materials, and, particularly at the secondary and tertiary levels, using existing facilities more intensively. Reduction in recurrent costs might be sought through changes in how teachers and other staff are paid and employed. At higher education levels, students could assume responsibility for performing essential custodial and administrative-support services.
Cost-sharing, the study says, could be achieved in several ways.
• Countries might consider encouraging the establishment, and relaxing regulations that constrain the operation, of privately owned and privately financed institutions of secondary and higher education. At primary and secondary levels, local groups or nongovernmental organizations could be encouraged to construct and operate schools.
Others in the series included Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action (1981), Financing Adjustment with Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa, 1986-90 (1986). and Population Growth and Policies in Sub-Saharan Africa (1986).
• Consideration could also be given to making beneficiaries of secondary and tertiary education more responsible for expenses unrelated to instruction (provision of services in kind) or to introducing, or gradually increasing, tuition fees to cover at least part of the costs of instruction. The study, warning that full cost-sharing could result in exclusion of the poor from opportunities to further their education, advocates the introduction of alternative modes—promotion of student-loan programs, special taxes on earnings from graduates of tertiary institutions, and national-service obligations from beneficiaries, for instance—of financing the increased costs of education.
Revitalization: restoration of quality. The second dimension of an education strategy involves restoring and improving the quality of infrastructure now in place. The focus of revitalization should be on the fundamentals: instructional materials, academic standards, and the maintenance of equipment and physical plant.
Restoration of quality in the area of instructional materials goes beyond funding adequate numbers of textbooks at all levels and for every subject. It involves, also, responding appropriately to questions such as: What pedagogical materials should be developed locally, and which should be imported? Should purchases be made of higher-cost, locally produced texts, or least-cost printing elsewhere in the region or, more usually, outside Africa? How should the best use be made of nontra-ditional media such as radio? The Bank study suggests that although there are no "correct" answers to these questions, "appropriate" responses would be those closely in tune with the realities and needs of each African society concerned.
Revitalization of academic standards would most likely also involve changes in the measurement of student performance away from examination systems that concentrate narrowly on measuring those skills that are most needed at the next level toward broadly structured measurement and incentive devices that, by sampling the full range of cognitive competencies, are able to assess the skills of the majority of students who do not advance to the next level.
The final element in revitalizing African education systems involves the need to provide enough funds to ensure that laboratory and workshop equipment is working and that the physical plant is maintained. Maintenance failures result, first, in a rapid deterioration of benefits to students, and, second, in inflated unit costs when premature replacement is the consequence of neglect.
Selective expansion. In the long run, the study asserts, it would be unwise for countries to cut back on their long-term education investments in the wake of the region's current fiscal austerity.
After adjustment and revitalization measures take hold, most countries should renew efforts toward
the provision of universal primary education. Although this effort will require major commitments of public resources, the study concludes that, compared with those in other sectors, investments in education have an unusually good record of implementation and sustainability; in addition, there is strong and mounting evidence that investment in education, particularly primary education, yields high economic returns.
Bank research has also concluded that, as a useful supplement to formal education, some countries might also give consideration to expansion of extramural study programs, typically guided by correspondence materials supplemented by radio broadcasts, to deal with problems of student access to secondary and postsecondary education and of continuing education for teachers. Though lacking in pupil/teacher interaction, unit costs of such instruction typically are only 20 percent to 40 percent of those of conventional instruction. Sub-Saharan countries might also wish to consider expanding occupation-specific training. In order to make training more relevant, countries should consider involving prospective employers in the design of vocational-training curricula. In so doing, vocational training could provide opportunities both for students seeking jobs (or who have them) and for those who seek to be self-employed.
Finally, the need is recognized for Africa to expand, through programs of postgraduate education, the professional talent that could permit countries to take advantage of the worldwide explosion of knowledge and to increase scientific and technological self-reliance. No country alone, the report argues, can address this transnational issue, given the continent's limited financial resources. International cooperation, therefore, is required—among African countries, and between them and their partners in other regions of the world—to establish a coherent set of programs of excellence in national institutions.
The role of the international community.
The adjustment measures advocated by the Bank study can help generate savings, which, in turn, can be used to help fund the necessary revitalization and, ultimately, the selective expansion, of the education sector.
But, the study notes, the total of all such savings that accrue from adjustment will not be sufficient, in most countries, to cover the costs of revitalization and expansion. International aid will remain critical to the pace of progress in the region. Further, it adds, the evolution of African needs in the sector demands corresponding changes in the organization and nature of international aid for African educational development—beyond increases in funds to help finance the implementation of sound programs.
Three related kinds of international support for the design of national policy are needed, none of
which currently exists: provision of seed money to cover the local and foreign costs of educational policy development and improved management; the establishment of a "clearing-house" mechanism, whereby ready access to the ongoing experience of other countries in formulating policy reform can be tapped; and the establishment and funding of an independent body of technical expertise upon which governments might call for help in formulating policies, and, then, in monitoring, evaluating, and correcting them during implementation.
The international commitment to programs of educational reform must be seen from the beginning as continuing, a characteristic that has been missing in the past. In addition, the study concludes, allocations by the donor community of financial support for educational reform should be reviewed and, if needed, adjusted to ensure that they are consistent with the programs being formulated by African governments for the development of education and training.
*        * *
"Education in Sub-Saharan Africa" has been the centerpiece of several regional and international seminars and conferences. They include: the meeting of anglophone ministers of education, finance, and planning (Nazareth, Ethiopia, in collaboration with the Economic Commission for Africa—January 1987); the meeting of francophone ministers of education, finance, and planning (Agroville, Cote d'lvoire, in collaboration with the African Development Bank—February 1987); the seminar on "Future Education Strategies in Kenya" (Eldoret, Kenya, in collaboration with Kenya's "Presidential Working Party on Education and Manpower Training for the Next Decade and Beyond"); the meeting of European donors to education in Africa (Dublin, Ireland—September 1987); the meeting of African ministers of education (Paris, France—October 1987); and the meeting of bilateral and multilateral donors to education in Africa (Paris, France—January 1988).
The study was discussed by the executive directors of the Bank, who generally endorsed its findings and recommendations. The views of the directors were taken into account before final publication of the report.
The Research Program
The World Bank sponsors research to improve the development prospects of its member countries. This broad goal translates into four narrower research objectives that have long constituted the core purpose of Bank research:
• to broaden understanding of the development process;
• to strengthen the intellectual foundations underpinning the Bank's policy;
• to provide important inputs to the Bank's operational work and project design; and
• to help in developing indigenous research capacity in developing countries.
Efforts to achieve these objectives are frequently mutually reinforcing, particularly when research on the development process strengthens the basis for Bank policy and project design. But there may also be tradeoffs among the goals. Some investment in research aims to pay off quickly, and thus be immediately relevant to operational needs. For instance, research on project-appraisal methods, or on the successes and failures of structural-adjustment lending, can flow back to operations quickly. And some research investments are longer term, designed to build a better base for solving future development problems. Though this research may be less responsive to current operational needs, it is important nonetheless—for the Bank must, like its member countries, invest for the future. One task of the Bank's research administration is thus to balance the costs and benefits of short-term and long-term research.
Another key consideration in the development of an effective research program in the Bank is the strengthening of the links between research and policy formulation and operational activities. Institutional mechanisms for reinforcing these links have been established with the setting up of the policy, planning, and research (PPR) complex. The reor-ganizational mandate for this complex was to create a functional structure that would be hospitable to the integration of policy and research—and responsive to immediate operational needs and longer-term priorities of senior management. Most current research is now being conducted within PPR. To a smaller extent, research is also conducted in various parts of the operations complex, very often in collaboration with research units in PPR.
A new structure for guiding and managing Bank-wide research was also put in place in the course of fiscal year 1988. The Research and Publications Policy Council is now the Bank's policy-setting body for both research and publications. It is chaired by the senior vice president for policy, planning, and research, with members drawn from senior managers throughout the Bank and the IFC. The council sets the tone, establishes a broad agenda, and makes recommendations for Bank research and publications activities.
To carry out the council's program for research, a permanent Research Committee has been established, chaired by the Bank's chief economist. The committee is responsible for translating the council's broad agenda into specific research priorities and for overseeing the Bank's centrally funded research program. The committee is thus the main operational body in the Bank's system for directing and managing the Bank's research. This two-corn-
mittee structure for managing research is designed to broaden and deepen the involvement of Bank management in research decisionmaking, while maintaining a high level of technical expertise to support research activities.
While research is encouraged in all areas of the Bank's activities, the following set of institutional priorities has emerged as requiring increased or new research efforts: finding ways for countries to adjust their economies and, at the same time, to sustain growth; developing strategies and tools for solving the debt problems of highly indebted countries; spurring the development of sub-Saharan Africa; alleviating poverty; the role and opportunities for women in development; the preservation of the environment; and the best approaches for enlarging the private sector's contribution to development.
In addition, the recent evolution of the Bank's lending program points to the need for increased research efforts in several other areas. Prominent among these is an analysis of the Bank's experience with policy-based lending, including structural-adjustment loans, sectoral-adjustment loans, and the growing portfolio of hybrid loans that combines fast-disbursing adjustment lending with traditional investment lending. The work programs that the Bank's research units are now developing incorporate many topics included in that research agenda.
Inevitably, and desirably, most Bank research is directed at immediate concerns. But some research must look beyond today's problems, pressing as they are. Among the longer-term issues that will be examined are the growing importance of the developing countries in the world economy—and the growing importance of the world economy for the welfare of developing countries; implications of urbanization for economic management and development; increasing internationalization of financial markets; longer-term trends in commodity prices; and economic implications of rapidly growing populations and divergent population trends among countries.
To ensure that the Bank's research portfolio is forward-looking and driven by the needs of its member countries and operations staff, the Research Committee will be commissioning reviews covering current knowledge and ongoing research in priority areas—and identifying gaps that future research must fill. It has also developed a new, more streamlined evaluation system of completed research that will emphasize subject areas rather than individual projects. This evaluation, together with the broader review of current knowledge in specific subject areas, will help assess the development profession's success or failure in answering important policy questions and determine how additional research might fill the remaining gaps.
As part of its efforts to strengthen the Bank's intellectual leadership on development issues, the
Research and Publications Policy Council established a Visiting Research Fellow Program. This program is to be used to attract eminent scholars from around the world to the Bank for periods of from three to twelve months. In addition to being able to conduct their own independent research, these visiting scholars will be expected to make themselves available for consultations with Bank staff and for participation in seminars and workshops in their areas of expertise.
Efforts will continue to be made to strengthen the research capacity of developing countries. In recent years, some 40 percent to 50 percent of the centrally funded research portfolio involved the active collaboration of developing-country researchers or research institutions. The key to success in this area is leverage. The Bank is constantly looking for opportunities where relatively small amounts of its resources can mobilize large amounts of donor assistance. A recent initiative in this direction was the Bank's participation in a donor consortium set up to finance a $7 million expansion of a highly successful International Development Research Centre pilot program to develop research support networks in Eastern Africa.
Economic Development Institute (EDI)
Fiscal year 1988 saw further progress toward meeting the institute's objectives as set out in its fiscal 1985-89 five-year plan. Essentially, EDI has (a) increased its role in policy-related training, following the favorable conclusion of the impact evaluations undertaken in 1986-87; (b) contributed to many more courses and seminars run by training institutions in the developing countries while reducing its own direct training in project analysis and management; (c) improved the quality of the seminars it organizes for trainers; and (d) expanded support for the developing countries' high-level training institutions, particularly through the development of regional and sectoral networks. Table 5-2 compares the numbers of different types of activities in fiscal year 1988 with earlier years.
The pattern of activities shows the continued expansion of senior policy seminars (lasting from one to five days and designed for top-level development policymakers, advisers, and other senior officials) and the continuing emphasis on macro-economic and sector-management seminars (one to four weeks in duration and designed for senior officials in economic and sectoral ministries). The drop in EDI trainers' seminars reflects, in part, interrelated changes: a shift in responsibility to partner institutions for several planned trainer seminars, as well as the increased provision of pedagogical assistance to help them deliver these seminars. As planned, EDI's own courses in project analysis and management fell sharply in fiscal year 1988, and more assistance was provided to other training institutions that provide such courses. EDI
also intends to increase its help to selected regional training institutions so that they might enhance national-level capacities to train project analysts and managers.
New approaches in EDPs training and institution-building activities in fiscal year 1988 may be noted.
• For the first time, EDI organized senior policy seminars on the financial sector and on the social impact of adjustment. The Istanbul seminar (for countries from the Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region) dealt with the role of the financial sector in structural adjustment, while the Oxford seminar (worldwide participation) focused on the use of new financial instruments in managing countries' external assets and liabilities. The seminar on the social impact of adjustment in Latin American countries, cosponsored by the Latin American and Caribbean Institute for Economic and Social Planning (ILPES) and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), explored practical ways and means of enabling adjustment policies to exert a more positive impact on the more vulnerable socioeconomic groups.
• With substantial financial support from Japan, EDI organized a seminar in Washington for senior officials of both developing countries' core ministries and of bilateral aid agencies to explore collaborative approaches in the design and implementation of structural-adjustment programs.
• The EDI launched new series of annual seminars for two cases of special need. For the South Pacific, public-sector management seminars are the focus; while for Southeast Asia (Vietnam and the Lao People's Democratic Republic), the courses focus on project analysis and implementation. The seminars are externally cofinanced and are organized jointly with local or regional partner institutions.
• EDI, as the executing agency, has embarked on a major three-year program, with substantial
core funding from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), to strengthen higher-level management-training institutes in sub-Saharan Africa. The project is being implemented in collaboration with the International Labour Organisation and with recently established regional associations of management-training institutions.
• Responding to the Bank's increased emphasis on women in development, EDI has launched a program of activities to enhance trainers' and policymakers' understanding and awareness of this issue and of the differential effect of alternative policy options on men and on women. The first activity was a three-day workshop for EDI trainers and Bank operations staff in May 1988, which focused on how to deal with gender issues arising in the agriculture and education sectors. Another activity, scheduled for late 1988 or early 1989, is a broadly similar workshop for teams from Asian and African training institutions.
The World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program was inaugurated in fiscal year 1987 with grant funding from the government of Japan. A total of 130 candidates, representing fifty-four World Bank member countries, applied for scholarships for the academic year 1987-88. A total of thirty-four scholarships were awarded, of which ten were to women and twenty-six to nationals of developing countries. The scholars, who came from twenty-five countries, attended twenty universities, and they ranged in age from twenty-three to forty-one. The host universities report on the scholars' progress. Fifty-nine new scholarships were awarded for the 1988-89 academic year by the scholarship steering committee, composed of three executive directors of the Bank and four senior Bank staff, while the number of universities contacted as potential sources of qualified applicants has grown from thirty to over one hundred.
With a view to making EDFs training materials more accessible, a new classification system was
established in January 1988. It will allow the distribution of a large volume of informal materials under an EDI working papers series. The papers in this series will cover a range of economic and development issues and will usually comprise an initial presentation of an author's views before publication of a finished work. Formal materials— now categorized into various different series—are publications that have been through stringent professional and editorial-review processes. These materials will be listed in the larger World Bank Index of Publications, as well as in the EDI catalog, and will be distributed through the Bank's commercial outlets. With EDI's expanded capability for desktop publishing, the appearance and speed of the output of training materials will be much enhanced.
For fiscal year 1988, the focus was very largely on completing a substantial backlog of training materials in the pipeline. During the year, forty-two items were added to the catalog. Six of these were in the "formal" category, including two books in the EDI Series in Economic Development and the first teaching case in the EDI Development Policy Case Series. Thirty-six items were in the "informal category," including nine EDI working papers. In addition, nine documents prepared with EDI support were published by partner institutions.
Collaboration with other external sources of support for high-level training in the developing countries further expanded, and the total volume of cofinancing reached about $5 million for the year. By far the largest absolute increase came from bilateral sources, most notably, Australia, France, Italy, and Japan. Canada, Ireland, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United Kingdom have remained valuable supporters. The UNDP continued as EDI's most important collaborator, while strong links were also maintained with other multilateral agencies, notably, the World Health Organization (including the Pan American Health Organization), the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements, and the Asian Development Bank. Discussions are being initiated which should lead to new multiyear cofinancing arrangements with the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, the Nordic countries, and Spain. It is also anticipated that the European Economic Community will collaborate with the EDI in specific sub-Saharan activities of mutual interest. The EDI continues to seek an expanded collaboration with regional development banks.
An advisory board for the EDI was established late in the fiscal year. Its main purpose is to help strengthen the institute's links with activities and actions outside the World Bank and, at the same time, strengthen support from within the recently reorganized Bank. The need for the advisory board arises because the institute now faces a much more complex set of program objectives than it did prior to its own reorganization in 1984. It confronts al-
ternative possibilities in connection with organizing policy-related training, assisting autonomous development of research/training institutes in developing countries, collaborating and coordinating with other supporters of training and research, producing training materials, and running university scholarship programs. The programs can be developed in mutually supportive and synergistic ways, but difficult questions of correct balance will continue. The advisory board is expected to advise the executive directors, as well as Bank and EDI management, on these issues and to generate ideas and support for guiding the institute's work.
The board comprises executive directors, interested senior Bank staff, outside academics, and experienced development practitioners from member countries. It is expected to gather for one or two two-day meetings a year; the first meeting was scheduled to take place in July 1988. The board will also guide the preparation of the EDI's five-year plan for fiscal years 1990-94.
Interagency Cooperation
The past year witnessed a broader collaboration among the Bank, agencies of the United Nations system, and international donors, particularly on measures to cushion the impact of policy changes on vulnerable groups and to expand the availability of resources to tackle urgent economic and social needs in countries pursuing policy reforms.
At an interagency workshop convened by the government of Ghana and attended by the Bank, the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA), efforts were joined to help Ghana develop a special program of action to mitigate the social costs of adjustment. (For details, see page 67.) The pioneering effort demonstrates how programs of economic adjustment can be structured to protect vulnerable groups, generate employment while encouraging redeployment of labor, and rehabilitate and strengthen the social sectors. The partnership approach could serve as a good example for designing sinular programs in other countries.
In its increasing support for compensatory programs to ameliorate the social costs of adjustment and recession, the Bank continues to expand its coordination with international agencies in financing and implementing such programs.
In Bolivia, for instance, IDA recently approved a $27 million credit—its second such support loan—for an emergency social fund project. Backed by more than $20 million in pledged international support, the fund's operations have brought health,
education, and nutrition aid to about 400,000 people affected by the country's economic crisis and its remedial reform measures. Both the United States Agency for International Development and the UNDP are active in this project. (For details of the Bolivian program, see page 66.) The Bank is also working actively with other agencies of the United Nations system to broaden support of adjustment efforts through joint participation in country missions, technical staff consultations, and information sharing.
A growing number of African governments are seeking ways to address the social issues in the design of future adjustment programs. To help these governments meet this particular challenge, the UNDP, the African Development Bank (AfDB), and the World Bank contributed $10 million to a multidonor facility to fund a regional project that aims at strengthening the institutional capacity of participating governments to design, implement, and monitor poverty-alleviation programs during the adjustment process. The project's steering committee, chaired by the UNDP, includes representatives from the Bank, the AfDB, the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), UNICEF, the ILO, the United Nations National Household Survey Capability Programme (NHSCP), and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
Underlining the need for an adequate flow of resources to sustain the adjustment effort, the Bank has taken steps to increase the volume of financial flows to countries undergoing adjustment.
One such initiative was the special multidonor meeting convened by the Bank in Paris in December 1987, at which $6.4 billion in highly concessional cofinancing aid was pledged by participating donor countries, the European Economic Community (EEC), and the AfDB to support adjustment efforts in the low-income, debt-distressed sub-Saharan African countries. This cofinancing initiative represents a new partnership between the Bank and the donor community in helping to support and monitor adjustment programs. (For details, see page 35.)
The Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, launched in September 1986, is of particular interest to the Bank, given the importance of the link between trade and development and the crucial role of trade-policy reform in adjustment programs negotiated with Bank borrowers. To help developing countries negotiating in the Round, the Bank has initiated a technical-assistance program that would allow countries to access up-to-date trade information and improve their capacity to analyze and evaluate such information. The program includes a handbook that analyzes issues under negotiation in the Round, as well as seminars on trade in services and agriculture. The Bank is also preparing two software packages that would
help countries assess the domestic impact of changes in their trade regimes and allow negotiators and trade policymakers to analyze problems of market access. The Bank is closely coordinating its technical-assistance efforts with those of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
Relations with governmental and nongovernmental groups. Cooperation with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) increased significantly in the past year. In his annual meetings speech to the board of governors (September 1987), the president of the World Bank reaffirmed the Bank's commitment to work more closely with NGOs, functioning within the framework of the borrowing governments' approval.
A primary goal of operational collaboration between the Bank and NGOs is to increase the participation of poor people in the planning and implementation of projects that the Bank supports. Bank evaluation studies show that strong beneficiary organizations often enhance the responsiveness and sustainability of projects. For example, concerns expressed by cooperatives, rural labor unions, and church-related popular organizations have introduced significant improvements in ongoing Bank-supported projects in Northeast Brazil.
NGOs can also be cost-effective in implementing both social-service and income-generating projects among the poor. The Bank is supporting a health project in Guinea that will expand health-service delivery by NGOs in that country, partly through grant assistance to women's cooperatives. Other poverty-alleviation programs in which the Bank and NGOs are collaborating are the emergency social fund in Bolivia and the program of action to mitigate the social costs of adjustment (PAMSCAD) in Ghana. NGOs are also a good source of project ideas. For example, a recently approved (June 1987) Bank-assisted forestry project in Uganda is modelled, in part, on work done by the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere (CARE) in this area.
Nongovernmental organizations have also contributed substantively to the Bank's policies on the social costs of adjustment and the environment. The Bank-NGO Committee continues to provide a forum and be the focal point for policy discussion with NGOs, although NGOs and the Bank exchange views in many other ways, as well.
The Bank has participated, for example, in a series of meetings and exchanges with a wide variety of religious and other NGOs on the effect of adjustment on poverty, and with environmental and development NGOs on how environmental and poverty issues are related. Often critical of the Bank's work in the area of the environment, environmental NGOs from around the world gathered during the Bank's 1987 annual meetings to voice
some concern. They urged a deeper involvement of developing-country NGOs in the Bank's work and more public awareness of the Bank's operations. Significant changes have been brought to many of the projects criticized, and NGOs are now involved in various aspects of the Bank's expanding program of environmental work.
At the seventh annual meeting of the Bank-NGO Committee, held in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, in November 1987, the discussions centered on greater Bank-NGO operational collaboration and measures to protect the poor during periods of adjustment. The meeting reached a consensus on a joint work program to foster increased collaboration between the Bank and NGOs, particularly indigenous NGOs active among the poor. Nongovernmental organizations were enthusiastic about the Bank's increasing efforts to involve them in operational work and were encouraged by the interest expressed by the Bank's senior management in working more closely with NGOs.
As a follow-up to the consensus reached in Santo Domingo, the Bank's Africa and Asia regional offices immediately asked their resident representative offices to explore possibilities for increased
involvement of local NGOs in Bank-supported operations. Several follow-up meetings already have been held. At the same time, the Bank's operations complex started a Bankwide exercise to identify countries, sectors, and specific operations that would involve an expansion of collaboration with NGOs. Some 150 possible operations have been identified in Africa, Asia, Latin America and, to a lesser extent, the Middle East.
An active and unique forum in which bilateral aid donors discuss the full range of development concerns exists at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) through its Development Assistance Committee (DAC), in which the Bank participates as a permanent observer. In the past year, Bank staff participated in meetings on such topics as environmental cooperation with developing countries; technical assistance to strengthen management capacity in developing countries; and strengthening development cooperation for private-sector development, including direct foreign investment. Discussions at the working and ministerial levels on the volume of official development assistance, structural adjustment, and donor coordination have been instru-
mental in fostering cooperation with the aid community, particularly in support of the special program of assistance for the low-income, debt-distressed countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Meetings on such issues as project-appraisal techniques, women in development, associated financing, growth and equity-oriented strategies, evaluation, and lending to prevent the spread of AIDS provided further opportunities to share views and experiences.
Outside the formal meetings of the DAC and other OECD committees and working groups, the Bank collaborates with the OECD secretariat on a number of studies. Recent examples included a review of donor-assistance efforts to reach the poorest, a study on economic relations between OECD countries and the major developing economies, an investigation of the impact of changes in agricultural pricing, and an assessment of the issues of aid strategy over the medium term. In addition, there was an ongoing exchange of data, including Bank social indicators, OECD debt statistics, and bilateral and multilateral aid flows.
Cooperation in agricultural research. The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is an informal association of forty public-sector and private-sector donors that collectively funds a worldwide network of agricultural-research centers. The work of the thirteen centers supported by the CGIAR covers most of the world's major food crops, as well as research on animal-production systems and food policy.
Despite difficult economic times and funding constraints, donor commitment to the CGIAR remains strong because of the high returns achieved from previous investments in agricultural research and the ability of the CGIAR centers to respond flexibly to needs in developing countries. This flexibility is needed to help ensure that the long-term food demands of growing populations in developing countries can be met through sustainable production systems. Aided by favorable exchange rates, contributions to the operations of the centers rose in 1987 by $9 million, as donors contributed $201 million, including $30 million from the Bank. The chairman of the CGIAR is W. David Hopper, senior vice president at the World Bank for policy, planning, and research, who was one of the founders of the CGIAR and served for several years on its technical-advisory committee.
In the past, the effect of the CGIAR centers has been felt most strongly in Asia and Latin America. In recent years, special efforts have been made to strengthen research efforts in Africa. In 1987, three events characterized the activities of the CGIAR in that region.
• Biological control. A review panel confirmed that scientists at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture—IITA—in Nigeria had developed a technology effective in controlling damage caused
by the cassava mealybug, the first successful application of biocontrol on a major scale in the tropics. The panel reported a positive economic impact valued at hundreds of millions of dollars on the production of cassava, a staple food of an estimated 160 million people living in sub-Saharan Africa.
The control mechanism is a natural predator of the mealybug, a South American wasp. In wide-ranging tests, the wasp has provided near total control of a pest that once threatened to reduce drastically cassava production in most major growing areas. Ecologists confirm that the technology is environmentally sound and that it will virtually eliminate the need for chemical control of this pest. Most important, scientists and research administrators believe that the success of the project will justify pursuit of similar initiatives elsewhere on the continent and encourage national programs to pursue biological control.
• Rice in West Africa. The West Africa Rice Development Association, WARDA, recorded outstanding progress in restmcturing its research program and administration. During the past two years, the once-ailing institute underwent one of the most significant transformations of any intergovernmental regional organization in Africa. At the end of 1986, its governing council, composed of ministers representing sixteen West African governments, adopted numerous reforms to place administration of the association in nonpolitical, expert hands, in line with other CGIAR institutes. In June 1987, WARDA installed its first board of directors with full authority over the association; more recently, the board announced plans to open a new headquarters and principal research station near Bouake in Cote d'lvoire.
WARDA's new mission statement calls upon the association to provide technical and economic options to the smallholder farm family in a variety of rice-growing ecologies. WARDA describes its target group as the resource-limited smallholder farm family that grows rice as a staple food crop, a group that accounts for an estimated 90 percent of the rice producers in West Africa. The needs of women, who frequently provide most of the labor for rice cropping, will receive special attention, as will the needs of local rice scientists.
The association will promote regional rice research and will act as a clearinghouse for new technology. Its own research programs will concentrate on germplasm improvement, crop and resource management, and socioeconomic and post-harvest technology, with a main focus on the continuum of upland and inland swamp environments. WARDA and IITA are collaborating closely to eliminate possible duplication of work in meeting the needs of rice research in West Africa.
• Research cooperation. In response to urgings from donors that the needs of sub-Saharan Africa be met more quickly, a CGIAR task force was
established to help harmonize the operations of the CGIAR centers working on the continent, strengthen national agricultural-research systems, and establish stronger partnerships between CGIAR centers and national programs. The directors of the centers formed a committee with the same goals.
Initial efforts involved establishing a dialogue with leading African scientists and officials of national agricultural-research systems. Recommendations will be used to help donors and CGIAR centers identify more efficient mechanisms for promoting research. For example, the task force has recommended that collaborative research networks be used to encourage communication between centers and national systems and that national systems be helped to develop more consistent and reliable sources of operating funds. In addition, the task force hopes to encourage greater solidarity between francophone and anglophone research systems and to rationalize the existing system of research networks in West Africa. Task-force members are also trying to encourage linkages between African research programs and extension agencies, university research programs, and scientists in nonagricul-tural disciplines.
Special grant programs. Special grant programs trace their origins to 1972, when the Bank committed itself to support the work of the CGIAR. During the past ten years, funds spent on special grant programs have increased rapidly. Expansion has come about for three reasons:
• The CGIAR program, as well as the Bank's financing share, has grown.
• The Bank has joined with other donors to support several agricultural-research centers or other initiatives outside the CGIAR system.
• A number of priority social-development initiatives have been launched to marshall support for global or regional development efforts. In total, eleven new programs have been added since 1984.
Today, special grant programs are widely recognized as vehicles to help the Bank participate in multisectoral programs on high-priority development issues and improve the economic or institutional environment of selected sectors in which the Bank's core activities take place.
Technical Assistance
During fiscal 1988, the Bank undertook an in-depth analysis of technical assistance in recognition that awareness has grown among donors and recipients alike that technical assistance, too often, has not been satisfactory.
The analysis concluded that effective utilization, absorption, and sustainability of technical assistance were hampered by the fact that (a) it was often seen as being imposed by donors rather than as being a response to local demand; (b) some technical-assistance projects were overdesigned, reflecting an unrealistic assessment of borrowers'
needs; (c) resources and efforts were often dissipated because of lack of coordination among donors; (d) although the cost of foreign technical assistance was high compared with prevailing local salary levels, its results—except in the provision of engineering services—were not always tangible and were rarely long lasting; and (e) the shift from "hard" technical assistance (for project design and construction) to "soft" technical assistance (for institutional development and project-related training) was increasing the number of problems related to implementation and monitoring.
A major step was taken during the past year to improve coordination of technical assistance: Through an agreement reached between the Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), technical-assistance issues will now be placed on the agenda of both consultative-group and roundtable meetings. In addition, the UNDP agreed to make a comprehensive inventory of ongoing technical assistance in selected countries, to analyze the utilization and effect of such assistance, as well as problems that might require remedial action, and to assess countries' medium-term needs for technical assistance.
During 1987, technical-assistance components of Bank loans and credits totaled $1,022.3 million, as compared with $1,051.7 million in 1986 and $1,345.2 million in 1985.
Sixteen freestanding technical-assistance loans and credits were approved during the year for a total of $146.6 million. Although this amount was only slightly higher than in 1986 ($136.9 million), the number of operations increased by five, thus reducing the average size of technical-assistance operations from $12.4 million in 1986 to $9.2 million.
In 1987, seventy-five project-preparation facility (PPF) advances were approved for a total of $69.8 million, a 42 percent increase over 1986 ($49.2 million); compared with 1985 ($26.8 million), the increase was on the order of 160 percent. Although the number of new advances remained roughly the same in 1986 and 1987, the average amount increased substantially, from $700,000 in 1986 to $900,000 in 1987.
Special project-preparation facility (SPPF) advances decreased from $5 million in 1986 to $2 million in 1987.
UNDP projects for which the Bank acts as executing agency declined in number, but increased slightly in amount. During 1987, forty-nine projects were approved for $52.4 million, compared with sixty-eight projects for $51 million in 1986. At the end of December 1987, there were 149 projects in progress, with allocations totaling $223.9 million.
Reimbursable technical assistance. The Bank extends technical cooperation to oil-producing, high-income countries on a reimbursable basis
when the annual program exceeds one staffyear of Bank input and on a nonreimbursable basis in response to ad hoc requests for programs requiring less than one staffyear.
In calendar 1987, as in previous years, the work load for Saudi Arabia constituted the bulk of the reimbursable technical-assistance program. During the year, the program in Saudi Arabia totaled 18.8 staffyears, of which 12.4 were provided from Washington and 4.4 from the resident mission in Riyadh. The major activities were in infrastructure and engineering, as well as management and computer systems. In addition, the Bank, working closely with the IFC, prepared a study on securities-market development.
Reimbursable technical-assistance programs in Kuwait and Oman consisted of 0.66 staffyears and one staffyear, respectively.
Because Venezuela was declared eligible to borrow once again from the Bank in December 1986, its reimbursable technical-assistance program came to an end in fiscal 1987, as total Bank staff resources devoted to Venezuela since December 1986 are charged directly to the Bank lending program. Calendar 1987 was a transition year, with several studies—on trade policy, energy efficiency, and capital markets—brought to completion. A total of 91.2 staffweeks were expended on Venezuela during calendar year 1987. This was more than the allotted fifty-two staffweeks, but special exception was granted in recognition of the transition in the nature of the program.
Operations Evaluation
Operations evaluation continues to provide a systematic and independent assessment of Bank operations and activities. Its principal objectives are to account to the Bank's shareholders for the outcome of Bank-supported projects and programs and to feed back that experience into the design and conduct of future operations.
The director-general, operations evaluation, has overall responsibility for the evaluation function. He reports directly to the executive board and is supported by the operations evaluation department (OED). The Joint Audit Committee of the board continues to oversee the work of the OED. As in the past, the committee's findings and recommendations were reviewed during the year by the full board, as was the fiscal 1987 annual report of the director-general and the department's Annual Review of Project Performance Results for 1986.
Dissemination and feedback continue to grow and become more focused and established, but, so that each might continue to flourish within the new structure of the Bank, a task force, with OED participation, was established in December 1987 to review the dissemination/feedback process. Among its major recommendations is the proposal for strengthening and structuring formal manage-
ment responses to OED findings and recommendations. And, because the Bank's reorganization also had the effect of interrupting the flow of project-completion reports, a Bankwide task force was established to review what changes in processing and formatting of these reports might be necessary to improve the quality of completion reports and to ensure that the flow might regain its former momentum.
Most OED evaluations fall into two categories: audits of completed projects and programs and special studies that address broader development issues at the country and sectoral level. During fiscal 1988, performance audits of seventy-one operations, including four structural-adjustment loans, were disseminated to the executive board. In addition, project-completion reports, covering 104 additional operations, were passed on to the executive directors without a full audit by OED staff. The cumulative total of Bank operations subjected to ex-post evaluation reached 1,924 by the end of the fiscal year.
Comments from borrowers were sought on all evaluation reports and, in a growing number of cases, borrowers participated directly in the preparation of reports on completed projects. A program was begun to help interested developing countries create or strengthen a central capability for ex-post evaluation of their policies and programs and to advise and support implementing agencies in the preparation of project-completion reports, including those covering Bank operations. During fiscal 1988, countries' interest in the program continued to be surveyed, and approaches were developed to define more precisely the shape of the program.
The Annual Review of Project Performance Results, covering calendar year 1986, was issued in October 1987 and was subsequently published. The review constitutes an important mechanism for synthesizing the results of operations evaluations by sector and geographical region, and through a process of discussion and follow-up with policy and operating staff, bringing that experience to bear on the design of future operations.
Of the 246 projects covered by the 1986 review, some 85 percent were characterized as having achieved satisfactory results. The percentage was lower, however, for projects in sub-Saharan Africa, where performance continued to be disappointing. Most of the 246 evaluated projects were approved in the latter half of the 1970s and were completed during the first half of the 1980s. This was a period of rapid growth in the volume, and of sizeable shifts in the composition, of Bank operations. Lending for energy increased, as did lending for urban development, water supply, and waste disposal. Lending for agriculture, however, decreased. During that period, also, an increase occurred in nonproject operations in the form of structural-adjustment loans. At the same time, the
effects of the oil-price shock, commodity-price fluctuations, and inflationary movements of the late 1970s, followed by world recession and the mounting debt crisis of the early 1980s, exercised important direct and indirect influences on the implementation and outcome of these projects— influences that were not, and could not have been, fully anticipated by the Bank or its borrowing countries. The array of difficulties now confronting borrowing member countries implies that uncertainty will remain an important issue, one that calls for broader analysis of risk and more deliberate efforts to manage it.
Several OED studies were completed in fiscal 1988. The most important of these, Rural Development: World Bank Experience, 1965-86, is reported on in detail on page 63. This report was published in English during the past year, and publication of the French and Spanish editions is scheduled for early in fiscal 1989. The other studies covered a wide range of subjects and issues, and included impact reviews of education projects, freestanding technical-assistance operations, and structural-adjustment programs. In addition, another study examined the nature and extent of renewable natural-resource management problems (for details, see page 44).
In his annual report to the executive directors, the director-general provided a more detailed account of all evaluation activities in the Bank, including not only the work carried out by the OED, but, also, that conducted by the IFC, the Economic Development Institute, and the Bank's research staff. The director-general also underlined the importance of increased internal and external dissemination of lessons learned and effective feedback, as well as the importance of timely and complete evaluation of all Bank operations—especially the evaluation and auditing of adjustment operations.
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
The international convention establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) took effect on April 12, 1988.
The agreement entered into force when its ratification by the United States and the United Kingdom on that day raised total subscriptions to 53.38 percent of its $1,082 billion in authorized capital, an amount well above the required one third minimum. As of June 30, 1988, the convention establishing MIGA had been signed by fifteen Category One (capital-exporting) and fifty-five Category Two (capital-importing) countries, whose subscriptions totaled 73.495 percent of the agency's authorized capital. Forty-two signatory states had also ratified the convention; their subscriptions totaled 63.374 percent of the capital. Membership in the agency is open to all nations that are members of the Bank and to Switzerland.
The objective of MIGA is to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among its member countries—in particular, to developing countries. MIGA is intended to enhance mutual understanding and confidence between host governments and foreign investors and heighten awareness of investment opportunities. It will also increase information, knowledge, and expertise related to the investment process. To fulfill its purposes, MIGA will guarantee eligible investments against losses resulting from noncommercial risk and carry out research and promotional activities.
The MIGA convention specifically provides for coverage of four broad categories of noncommercial risk, but authorizes the agency to cover other noncommercial risks upon the joint application of the investor and the host country and by a special majority decision of the agency's board. The four types of risk are:
• the transfer risk resulting from host government restrictions on currency conversion and transfer;
• the risk of loss resulting from legislative or administrative actions and omissions of the host government that would have the effect of depriving the foreign investor of his ownership or control of, or substantial benefits from, his investment;
• the repudiation by government of contracts with investors in cases in which the investor has no access to a competent forum, faces unreasonable delays in such a forum, or is unable to enforce a judicial decision issued in his favor; and
• the risk of armed conflict and civil unrest.
Following the entering into force of the agreement, an inaugural meeting of the agency's governing council was held on June 8, 1988, in Washington, D.C. At that meeting, members of the board of directors were elected, by-laws adopted, and terms and conditions for future members agreed upon.
At its first meeting on June 22, the board of directors appointed Barber B. Conable as the agency's first president. Mr. Conable is also president of the World Bank and its other affiliates.
The president told the MIGA board that he planned to delegate most of his authority over the agency's operations to an executive vice president, an arrangement similar to that of the IFC. On July 1, 1988, Yoshio Terasawa was appointed to the position. Mr. Terasawa had been executive vice president of Nomura Securities Co. at its Tokyo headquarters since December 1986. An interim administration provided by the Bank is already issuing application forms and advising interested investors on how to obtain MIGA guarantees.
At the June 22 meeting, the board adopted policy guidelines, regulations, and procedures for the agency's administration and approved its administrative budget for the first fiscal year, ending June 30, 1989.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
During fiscal 1988, the International Finance Corporation expanded its investment activities to record levels, diversified the services it provides, and strengthened its financial position.
The IFC approved ninety-two investments for a total of $1.3 billion. This was an increase of 38 percent over the preceding year and 83 percent since the beginning of the current five-year program (fiscal 1985-89).
At the same time, disbursements rose sharply, and the total disbursed portfolio of loans and equity investments reached a new high. The IFC's clients have taken full advantage of the range of flexible financial instruments introduced in fiscal 1987, thus contributing to the corporation's renewed growth.
A large proportion of the corporation's new investments during the year was in Latin America, reflecting the presence of good investment opportunities in the region and the fact that the private sector in many Latin American countries does not have easy access to foreign exchange. At the same time, the IFC continued to support the private sector in sub-Saharan Africa, with particular emphasis on assistance to small and medium-sized businesses. Near the end of the fiscal year, the IFC announced plans to assist these businesses by establishing a $60 million fund, the African Enterprise Fund, and opening a new office in Lagos, Nigeria.
The year saw the continued diversification of the services it provides to private companies in the developing world, including several corporate-restructuring operations.
The use of intermediaries to make loans to, and investments in, small businesses continued, and the corporation's activities in support of capital-market development expanded. During the year, the IFC continued to advise governments on arrangements for the conversion of debt to equity and launched several new country funds to facilitate new portfolio investments.
The economic environment in which the corporation has been working was better during the year than seemed possible a year ago; nevertheless, uncertainty exists in the near-term. At the same time, the movement toward greater encouragement of the
private sector, as reflected in policy changes in many member countries, is highly encouraging. As the IFC moves into the final year of its five-year program, it expects to expand further its activities and to meet most of the program's targets.
Full details of the IFC's fiscal year can be found in the corporation's Annual Report.
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes is a separate international organization established under the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (the convention), which was opened for signature in 1965 and entered into force on October 14, 1966. ICSID provides facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes between contracting states and nationals of other contracting states with a view to promoting a climate of mutual confidence between investors and states favorable to increasing the flow of resources to developing countries.
Contracting states are countries that have signed and ratified the convention. As of June 30, 1988, these included eighty-nine members of the World Bank and Switzerland.
The number of cases submitted to ICSID continued to increase in fiscal 1988, during which the secretary-general of ICSID registered two new requests for arbitration. Also during the year, one annulment proceeding was initiated, and an award on the merits was rendered in three arbitration cases. There are currently nine disputes pending before the centre, all of them arbitrations, and the total number of cases submitted to ICSID since its inception reached twenty-five, most of which were initiated during the past six years.
ICSID has continued to carry out its program of publications and promotional activities. Two additional issues of its semiannual publication, ICSID Review—Foreign Investment Journal, as well as four releases of its collections of Investment Treaties and of Investment Laws of the World, were published in fiscal 1988.
Details of the activities of ICSID during fiscal year 1988 appear in the annual report of the centre.
Unloading fish at Dakar port. IDA has lent more than $50 million in support of the fisheries subsector in sub-Saharan Africa.
Section Six
1988 Regional Perspectives
Africa
The general economic situation in sub-Saharan Africa continues to be of great concern:
• Gross domestic product (GDP) declined in 1987, reversing the modest improvement of the year before. Oil exporters fared particularly badly, as their economies contracted by more than 4 percent. The economies of the region's oil importers grew by about 2 percent, and continued high population growth of over 3 percent a year led to a decline in per capita income for the region, reinforcing the trend characteristic of the decade of the 1980s.
• After two years of recovery, cereal production
fell as drought conditions returned to parts of the region, and, with the exception of oil exporters, the terms of trade declined for the region, as the prices of a number of primary commodity exports fell or remained depressed, and as the United States dollar, the currency in which most commodity prices are expressed, continued its sharp depreciation.
• The difficult economic situation was exacerbated by persistent internal and regional conflicts that disrupted transport routes and led to large movements of population and associated demands for emergency food and other services.
Despite these difficult circumstances, about half the countries in the region are implementing economic-adjustment programs that involve profound economic, social, and institutional changes. Not all of the anticipated results of reform programs have yet emerged, and benefits are unevenly spread across countries and sectors; nevertheless, significant progress has been made in improving production and trade incentives and in controlling fiscal and external deficits. The sustenance of these adjustment efforts is crucially dependent on the availability of additional resources that would permit these countries to maintain consumption and finance inputs and investments for growth. Large debt-service payments are currently compressing imports to levels well below such requirements. To help these countries, the Bank and other donors are supplementing their normal lending with special programs of assistance; in addition, several bilateral agencies are providing debt relief. (For details on the debt problems of low-income sub-Saharan countries, as well as on other measures affecting these countries during the year, see pages 35^40.)
During the past year, several regional initiatives were launched by the Bank to strengthen its analytical and financial support for longer-term invest-
ments—in agricultural research, the environment, and education. A continued concern by the Bank with the social dimensions of adjustment and growth is also reflected in its increasing focus on issues of poverty and food security.
Subregional Perspectives
Western Africa. Although the terms of trade for the oil exporters in Western Africa improved by an estimated 10 percent, GDP fell as production and exports of oil fell. In Nigeria, which accounts for about 20 percent of sub-Saharan Africa's population, oil production fell by 12.3 percent, the result of lower production limits agreed to by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Agricultural output fell by 7.7 percent, reflecting poor weather conditions. These declines more than offset growth in other sectors, which responded to the far-reaching structural-adjustment program that was begun in 1986. The country's GDP is estimated to have declined by 4.4 percent in 1987.
In the Sahelian countries, growth patterns were mixed; GDP declined by nearly 5 percent in Niger and increased by about 4 percent in both Mali and Senegal. On the average in these countries, GDP increased by a little over 1 percent. There has been
Sand dune fixation efforts under way in Somalia. Desertification threatens the livelihood of 850 million people, mostly in Africa. The Bank has about twenty projects under preparation or appraisal that will have an impact on desertification.
slow but steady progress in the adjustment efforts of many Sahelian countries, and most have improved their external and internal financial situations. Nevertheless, their narrow resource base and underdeveloped human resources remain constraints to growth.
Among other countries in Western Africa, Ghana, which launched its reform program in 1983, maintained the increase in per capita income that started in 1984—despite drought and floods that reduced agricultural output. In Guinea-Bissau and Guinea, real GDP is estimated to have grown by 5 percent to 6 percent after recent adjustment efforts. In Cote dTvoire, however, GDP is estimated to have fallen by more than 2 percent (after two years of sustained growth) because of a sharp decline in its terms of trade. And in Togo, economic growth was only 2 percent, while in Benin, GDP declined.
Eastern and Central Africa. The fall in coffee prices, combined with the depreciation of the United States dollar, resulted in a 20 percent to 45 percent decline in the terms of trade for a number of countries in Eastern and Central Africa. In some, however, economic growth was satisfactory (between 4 percent and 5 percent), partly because of vigorous government policies that increased price incentives, introduced more realistic exchange rates, and provided for increased inputs. In Uganda, for instance, following three years of economic
contraction and the introduction, in 1987, of a recovery program supported by $89 million in IDA and African Facility funds, production of food, export crops, and manufactures all increased markedly. A recovery program also contributed to the first increase in per capita output in a decade in Tanzania. In Kenya, recovery in manufacturing and tourism generated growth of over 5 percent. In other countries—Burundi and Zaire, for instance— growth was more modest, in the 2 percent-to-3 percent range, while in Rwanda, there was no growth. The fall in terms of trade contributed to a substantial deterioration of the budgetary and bal-ance-of-payments situation in most of the countries of this subregion.
Southern Africa. Growth in much of Southern Africa stagnated. Thus, in Madagascar, GDP growth is estimated at 2 percent; despite increased copper prices and production, Zambia continued its downward trend in the absence of a sustained reform program; in Zimbabwe, there was little growth because of drought, a continuing shortage of foreign exchange, and depressed investment levels; and despite the continuation of its structural-adjustment efforts, Malawi's GDP also stagnated, partly because of poor weather, but primarily because of a sustained compression of imports following the disruption of transport routes through Mozambique. Mozambique, however, registered
growth of nearly 4 percent despite climatic adversities, security factors, and transport problems. Relative success resulted, in part, from major policy reforms implemented in 1987.
Food Production on the Decline
In the 1987 crop year, production of major cereals is estimated to have declined by 15 percent. After allowing for a drawdown of stocks built up during the past two years of good harvests, the region's import needs for 1988 are estimated to be about 9 million tons. The shortfall in production is concentrated in those parts of Eastern and Southern Africa—Ethiopia, Malawi, and Sudan, for example—that suffered from drought or other natural disasters. Political instability and associated population movements have exacerbated the food-supply situation: In Ethiopia, some of the areas worst affected by drought are also those affected by continued insurgencies; in Sudan, the conflict in the south has displaced hundreds of thousands of people; in Malawi, about half a million refugees from Mozambique have imposed additional demands on food availability; and political instability has contributed to Mozambique's being one of the largest per capita recipients of food aid in the region. The unpredictability of rains (and hence food production) in Africa, combined with political instability and chronic inability to buy food (over 100 million people are estimated to be undernourished), makes food security an important issue in Africa.
Progress on Structural Adjustment
Two dozen countries in the region are currently pursuing economic-adjustment programs supported by the World Bank. Several initiated significant and difficult policy reforms in 1987. Among them were:
• Uganda, whose recovery program included a currency reform with a 30 percent tax on liquid assets, a 77 percent devaluation of the exchange rate, major increases in producer prices for cash crops, and the initiation of an open general licensing (OGL) system for imports.1
• Sao Tome and Principe, which devalued the dobra by 55 percent, liberalized trade, and abolished most price controls and the monopoly of state trading companies. With a focus on incentives for export crops, the adjustment program has placed several large nationalized cocoa estates under private management.
• Mozambique, which initiated the first phase of its rehabilitation program embodying policy reforms covering the exchange rate, the trade system, and pricing and distribution structures. These reforms marked a major departure from the past economic structure of centralized administrative control.
In most other countries, adjustment programs continued. In Ghana, the foreign-exchange auction
was expanded in 1987 to include virtually all merchandise imports, and the structure of import and sales taxes was rationalized to reduce the level and variation of effective protection granted to domestic production. In addition, the government consolidated earlier improvements in public-resource management, and, to improve the efficiency of the civil service, it retrenched about 11,000 government workers.
• In Madagascar, structural reforms initiated in 1985 led to the elimination of ex-factory price controls, improved producer prices for export crops, liberalized input marketing, and relaxed import constraints. These adjustment efforts were further strengthened in 1987 with a 46 percent discrete devaluation, the introduction of an OGL import system, and rationalization of import tariffs.
• Malawi continued the structural-adjustment efforts that it began in 1982. In 1987, the government removed the requirement that imports of raw materials and industrial spare parts have prior central bank approval and restructured the agricultural parastatal through significant staff reduction, divestiture of assets, and reduction in state control of smallholder marketing.
• Senegal continued its adjustment efforts, begun in 1984, by further reducing and standardizing customs tariffs, removing quantitative restrictions on imports of manufactured goods, liquidating nine state enterprises, and offering for sale its share in ten others.
The process of structural adjustment was interrupted or delayed in a couple of countries, however. In Somalia, the foreign-exchange auction was abandoned, and price controls were reimposed; and, in the absence of a comprehensive reform program, Zambia continued to impose controls on exchange rates, prices, and trade.
Structural changes cover a wide array of policies, and commitment and action vary among countries. Nevertheless, there are clear signs of progress in many areas.
One of the notable features of successful structural adjustment in the 1980s has been an increase in agricultural producer incentives. The average real prices of export and food crops have increased by 53 percent and 22 percent, respectively, in the adjusting countries (see Table 6-3), in most cases, resulting in an increase in the share of the international price that is paid to fanners. Partly as a result, export-crop area and production have increased, and a supply response has occurred in food crops, as well. In Senegal, following a 12 percent increase in the real price of groundnuts in 1985, area expanded by 32 percent during the pe-
1 The OGL system is one where, for a previously approved list of commodities, qualified importers can automatically obtain licenses and unlimited foreign exchange from the authorities.
riod 1986-87, and in Ghana, a 167 percent real increase in the price of cocoa between 1984 and 1987 led to a 20 percent increase in its production on existing areas.
In Guinea, following removal of domestic price controls in 1986 and an eightfold increase in the price of rice imports financed by aid, the area under rice in the lower coastal zone is estimated to have expanded by as much as 30 percent during the period 1985-87, while in Madagascar, liberalization of the rice trade, combined with a limit on cheap rice imports, raised production by 9 percent in 1987. Better producer incentives are likely, in the medium term, to increase private investment in the sector, as well. (Thus, in Guinea and Ghana, investment is taking place in new coffee bushes and replantings of cocoa.)
Progress on exchange-rate adjustment has also been significant. Real effective exchange rates are substantially lower than the high levels of the early 1980s in virtually all countries of sub-Saharan Africa, particularly those that have made adjustment efforts (see Table 6-3). In some of these countries—Nigeria and Guinea-Bissau, for instance— exchange-rate depreciation (combined with trade reform) has had visible effects on efficiency in manufacturing activity and growth of nontradi-tional exports. However, a number of countries that have the CFA franc as a currency have experienced an appreciation of the real exchange rate in recent years (by about 7 percent during 1984-87), partly because the French franc, to which their currencies are tied, has appreciated with respect to the United States dollar. This appreciation has reduced incentives for export farmers and manufacturers of non-traditional goods.
Progress on inflation and fiscal management, while impressive, has been more uneven and subject to periodic fluctuations. The inflation rate was reduced by four percentage points in the adjusting countries, and the fiscal deficit, as a percentage of GDP, declined by 3 percent of GDP (see Table 63). Nevertheless, in 1987, the annual rate of inflation was still over 20 percent in many countries,2 and the fiscal deficit in fiscal 1987 was 10 percent of GDP or higher in several.3
Fiscal discipline has often lapsed as a consequence of a decline in external terms of trade, unexpectedly large demands from state marketing boards, and, in some cases, unwarranted government expenditures. Thus, in Cote d'lvoire, a 13.5 percent loss in terms of trade in 1987 increased the budgetary deficit by 6.3 percent of GDP, thus reversing five years of adjustment efforts that had restored key macroeconomic balances; and, in Kenya, after a reduction from 10 percent of GDP in fiscal 1981 to 4.6 percent in fiscal 1984, the deficit increased to 10.5 percent in fiscal 1987 as a result of a steep rise in expenditures (increases in civil-service wages and employment, increasing demands from crop-purchasing agencies, and defense-related expenditures).
Most adjusting countries have also taken steps to restructure their parastatal sector in order to improve its efficiency and reduce its losses. They have established controls on civil-service wages
2 Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Malawi, Sao Tome and Principe, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire.
3 Burundi, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Malawi, Nigeria, and Tanzania.
and employment. In The Gambia, aggregate financial losses of ten major public enterprises declined by half in real terms between 1982-84 and 198586, and losses in the public-enterprise sector declined from over 10 percent of GDP to between 3 percent and 4 percent. In Niger, which has undertaken comprehensive reform of the public-enterprise sector since 1984, net income of public enterprises before subsidies increased from a negative CFAF19 billion in fiscal 1983 to a positive CFAF4 billion in fiscal 1986. And, in Tanzania, net government transfers to public enterprises had fallen by half in real terms by 1986 as compared with 1982-83. Privatization and a reduction in the role of parastatals have been important components of public-enterprise adjustment efforts. A number of countries have also restrained wage increases for civil servants, imposed hiring freezes, and reduced public-sector employment.4
The reform effort in sub-Saharan Africa can be described as an accretion of important policy changes in several areas. Many reforms are of an interim nature and need to be followed by more comprehensive change. To keep the adjustment process going, there is also a need for institutional development that not only fosters effective macro-economic management, but also, builds an internal capacity for policy analysis and implementation. In this connection, it is noteworthy that many adjusting countries have used Bank-supported technical-assistance programs to support their adjustment efforts.
Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Growth
Many structural changes have helped the poor-increases in farm-producer prices, for example— but others have not. Increases in consumer prices, reforms in the public sector that lead to reductions in public employment and expenditures in the social sectors, and reforms in trade and exchange rates that change relative prices can all cause transitory unemployment and declines in real income for some. While the cost of not adjusting are heavy, the hardships that groups adversely affected by adjustment undergo are very real. Efforts, therefore, have increased to mitigate these costs for the most vulnerable by implementing compensatory programs, and, in the medium and long term, by fostering greater participation of vulnerable groups of people in the process of economic growth.
Action programs designed to mitigate the social costs of adjustment are being undertaken in several countries with the help of other donors. In Senegal, a special fund has been created to assist workers from liquidated public-sector and private-sector entities, as well as those leaving the civil service, to set up their own businesses; The Gambia has successfully retrained and redirected to the private sector several hundred redundant civil servants who
left under a voluntary severance program; Guinea-Bissau is taking steps to mitigate the negative effects on some urban groups of an adjustment program that it has been implementing since 1986 with the assistance of IDA, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the International Fund for Agricultural Development; efforts are currently under way to formulate similar programs in Sudan and Madagascar in conjunction with economic-recovery and structural-adjustment programs. (Details of Bank assistance to Ghana to mitigate the effects on the poor of adjustment can be found on page 67.)
Concurrent with these efforts, several regional initiatives have been undertaken. In collaboration with the UNDP, the African Development Bank, bilateral agencies, and other multilateral institutions, the Bank launched a regional project in 1987 on the social dimensions of adjustment. The objectives of the project are to develop and maintain adequate data bases on characteristics of the poor that can help governments carry out policy studies assessing the socioeconomic dimensions of adjustment and strengthen their capacity to design specific compensatory policies and programs for the vulnerable poor. Twenty-one countries in the region have indicated an interest in participating in the project, and appraisal missions have already been carried out in six.
In addition, two Bankwide task forces (with a special focus on Africa), on poverty and on food security, are preparing agendas for action to mitigate not only the transitional costs of adjustment, but to address the longer-term issues of chronic insufficiency of income and nutrition, as well. While recognizing that per capita income growth is an essential element of a food-security strategy, the second-named task force has recommended that systematic efforts be made to identify the groups at high risk of malnutrition and develop action programs in individual countries. These programs would give priority to cost-effective projects (and policies) that might raise the incomes of people too poor to buy adequate amounts of food (even if they involve some trade-off with growth), develop ways to stabilize nominal incomes and prices, improve preparation and response to emergencies, and increase the effectiveness of food aid. The action program has not been conceived as an initiative for the Bank alone, but as a partnership of concerned donors and agencies.
Longer-term Issues
Living standards in most countries in the region have been in decline for more than a decade; per
4 As many as a dozen countries have multiyear wage freezes in effect, while six have reduced, or are in the process of reducing, public-sector employment.
capita income has fallen to only three quarters of the level reached at the end of the 1970s. Resumption of sustained per capita income growth, therefore, remains a top priority. While macroeconomic stability and undistorted prices are essential conditions for growth, they need to be supplemented by sound investments in physical and social infrastructure. Several regionwide initiatives have been prompted by these concerns.5
Agricultural research. Agricultural development is vital to future prosperity in sub-Saharan Africa, and agricultural research that responds to the region's varied and often fragile agroclimatic conditions is a crucial ingredient in the process. Although there is now an extensive network of regional and international institutes capable of generating agricultural technologies for Africa,6 few national systems are strong enough to adapt the technology to the needs of farmers. As a result, government expenditure for research has had limited effect.
In consultation with African governments and donors, the World Bank has proposed a strategy to improve the productivity of national research systems by (a) strengthening the linkages between research and national macroeconomic and social goals, stabilizing research budgets, and improving the balance between capital and operating expenditures; (b) improving interaction with regional and international research agencies and with national extension agencies; and (c) improving educational and career opportunities in research. The Bank is currently committed to providing long-term support to research systems in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Senegal, Sudan, and Zimbabwe, and is examining prospects for similar support in ten other countries. It will coordinate donor support, as well, utilizing such mech-
anisms as the special program for African agricultural research (SPAAR), an undertaking launched by the Bank in 1986.
Environment. A related concern is that of protecting natural resources and the physical environment. A rapidly growing population, with its ever-increasing demand for food and firewood, can erode the very basis of future growth by degrading soils, polluting and depleting water supplies, destroying forests, and eliminating plant species that are potentially useful. The environment division in the World Bank's Africa Region, therefore, is focusing on assisting countries (beginning with Burkina Faso, Ghana, Lesotho, Madagascar, and Rwanda) to refine action-oriented strategies and develop tools for environmental protection and natural-resource management. A joint study with the World Resources Institute is expected to focus on environmental policy issues. Desertification is receiving special emphasis through project activities and analytical work, including a recently published World Bank Technical Paper on the subject and the completion of a study on the management of natural resources in the Sahel. In addition, a review of successful agroforestry practices covering three major ecological zones in the region and the initiation of follow-up case studies are being carried out to provide a sharper focus for increasing Bank involvement in agroforestry.
5 This section does not report on the Bank's policy study on sub-Saharan Africa's education sector; for details, see page 69.
6 These include seven international research institutions, five of which are funded by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Annual expenditure on adaptive research in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated at about $300 million.
Asia
The rich diversity of country economies and development strategies, so long a hallmark of the Asia region, has again characterized the region's development performance and prospects over the past year.
In South Asia, the struggle to raise the standard of living of the absolute poor encountered unexpected setbacks, as India and Sri Lanka endured severe drought, while Bangladesh and Nepal experienced major floods. Indonesia and the Philippines, which both face difficult external conditions, continued to make progress in their adjustment efforts. China's economy again grew
rapidly, as it extended its program of market-oriented economic reforms, while the Republic of Korea and Thailand also registered another year of strong economic growth. The small island countries of the Pacific and Papua New Guinea registered widely varied results.
Strong Growth in Manufactured Exports
Among the larger economies of the region, a widely shared trend is the recent surge in manufactured exports. The improved performance in manufactured exports is notable both for its wider distribution in the region and the continued strength of the two more spectacular performers: China and Korea. China's recent economic growth has been boosted by its success at finding overseas markets for its exports of petroleum, raw materials, textiles, and, more recently, for its machinery. The introduction of various export-promotion measures, including tax rebates and preferential loans for exporters, a relaxation of export-license requirements, and the delayed impact of the July 1986 devaluation, helped push nonoil export growth up strongly for the second year in a row. In 1987, the value of exports, led by nonoil exports, grew by almost 21 percent.
Korea's economy boomed in 1987 for the second year in a row. The continuation of favorable developments in exchange rates, interest rates, and oil prices enabled Korea to achieve a 12 percent growth rate, a substantial current-account surplus of $10 billion, and a reduction of external debt by about $8 billion. The appreciation of the nondollar hard currencies relative to the Korean won, in particular, contributed to increases in Korea's exports and market share in the industrialized countries and to consolidation of two product lines, automobiles and electronics. The Bank focused on Korea's trade and monetary-management issues in its economic work in 1987, while its lending program continued to support the country's investment needs through two loans in the transport sector.
Joining Korea and China are a number of countries that have more recently emerged as dynamic participants in the process of industrial and trade-policy reform, industrial expansion, and rapid growth in manufactured exports.
India, for example, has seen an acceleration of industrial growth over the past three years coupled
with impressive performance in manufactured exports, which, in the past year, grew at a buoyant 25 percent in value (over 10 percent in real terms) despite severe drought and reduced growth in gross domestic product (GDP). Recent industrial-policy reforms are clearly paying off, as those subsectors experiencing the most rapid growth, such as telecommunications, computers, and electronics, have also been the targets of specific reforms. The telecommunications industry, for example, has responded to the opening up of telecommunication-equipment manufacturing to the private sector, while the electronics and computer industries have benefited from a liberalization of imports. Licensing requirements have been eased, and the scope of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act has been reduced.
Growth in India's manufactured exports has responded to several factors, including a new trade and payments policy, which has provided quicker and more generous incentives to exporters, import liberalization, and a dramatic appreciation of European and Asian currencies against the Indian rupee. The rapid expansion of exports made it possible for India to reduce its current-account deficit and maintain adequate levels of foreign-exchange reserves despite the upward pressure on imports caused by the drought.
In 1987, Thailand's economic outlook shifted sharply upward. Gross domestic product grew by 7 percent, largely because of the good performance of manufacturing and real growth of over 35 percent in manufactured exports. The investment and financial policies implemented by the government, together with the reduction in oil prices and the further depreciation of the effective exchange rate, resulted in a significant reduction in the current-account deficit, which, in 1987, declined to 1 percent of GNP. Total private investment, estimated to have grown by 20 percent in 1987, is likely to strengthen further, both because of higher domestic investment and the expected foreign investment associated with the relocation of production facilities within the East Asia region. Bank assistance has focused on investments in the energy and infrastructure sectors, which need to be developed rapidly to meet the demands of a growing economy.
After two years of relatively low growth, Malaysia's performance in 1987 recovered to about 4.7 percent real GDP growth. Inflation is well under control, with the consumer-price index up by only 1.5 percent, and the current account returned into surplus. The recovery, which was led by growth in manufactured exports (26 percent in real terms), highlights a trend in the economy away from domestic-based growth to a more export-oriented pattern.
The Bank continues to support Malaysia's development objectives, including the alleviation of poverty, through lending for agriculture, educa-
tion, and power. Sector studies have focused on transport, housing, and municipal services.
Indonesia's continuing reforms in the trade and industrial-policy regime also have helped spur export performance. Nonoil export earnings reached an estimated $9.4 billion in fiscal 1988, an increase of 40 percent in nominal terms and 24 percent in real terms over the previous year.7 While several commodity exports, such as palm oil and shrimp, recorded sizable increases, 65 percent of the increase was due to manufactured exports, which grew by 40 percent in real terms.
Another Asian country experiencing recent growth in manufactured exports is the Philippines. The economy emerged from the recession of the previous year, as overall GDP grew by 5 percent in 1987, helped by a 7 percent growth in manufacturing, a 17 percent growth in construction, and a 27 percent increase in the value of manufactured exports. This increase in manufactured exports was offset, however, by stagnant earnings from sugar, coconut oil, and copra. Stagnant commodity earnings, combined with a strong growth of imports, sent the current account into deficit in 1987.
The smaller and poorer countries of Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Nepal have also registered recent gains in manufactured exports. Industrial growth is a key element of their growth strategies, and each has implemented policy reforms and enjoyed a marked increase in exports recently, including ready-made garments and frozen shrimp in the case of Bangladesh (part of a 31 percent increase in the value of merchandise exports in fiscal 1987), garments and cut stones from Sri Lanka, and carpets and textiles from Nepal.
The Bank is supporting further trade reforms, which were launched in 1987 in all three countries. Nepal is liberalizing its import-licensing system; Bangladesh and Nepal will eliminate quantitative restrictions on imports in favor of appropriate tariffs; Sri Lanka and Bangladesh will reduce the level of protection through a decline in nominal tariff levels; and all three will introduce or extend export incentives.
Setbacks in the Struggle against Poverty
In 1987, after two years of above-average GDP growth, India was hit by its worst drought in over a quarter century. By the end of September 1987, twenty-one of thirty-five rainfall districts had received less than 80 percent of normal rainfall; at the same time, severe floods struck the states of West Bengal (in the north) and Bihar.
Despite the severe shortage of rainfall and decline in crop production, foodstocks and food distribution were adequate to avert widespread hunger
7 Indonesia's fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.
and starvation. Real GDP growth is now estimated at about 1.8 percent for fiscal year 1988, down from 4 percent last year, but considerably better than the 4.9 percent decline registered during the drought of 1979.8 Because of the effect of drought on agricultural prices, inflation neared 10 percent for the first time since the early 1980s.
India's success in averting the worst effects of the drought was due to timely action by the government and the existence of well-established institutional mechanisms for coping with such emergencies. The government's program included emergency-relief measures, as well as steps to salvage what production could be saved and to ensure the best possible production at the next planting. Both central and state governments increased their ongoing public-works and relief programs in an effort to maintain the purchasing power of the poorer groups. The central government also moved to maintain availability of basic foods and contain price increases by drawing down its food-grain stocks, and by importing edible oils, pulses, and fodder.
India was supported by the Bank in this effort through a drought-assistance project, and by special credits and assistance provided by bilateral donors. The Bank project provided $350 million to
finance, on a fast-disbursing basis, imports of agroindustrial inputs, petroleum and petroleum products, nonferrous metals, as well as industrial equipment and spare parts. By far the largest portion of the total cost of this effort, however, was financed by the government. In addition to the assistance for India's drought recovery, Bank lending in fiscal 1988 continued its significant role in various sectors, including energy, transport, health and population, finance, and agriculture.
Overall, the government's capacity to manage successfully and finance a massive emergency-relief program is strong testimony to the development progress that India has made over the past twenty-five years. Yet, the challenges that lie ahead are still enormous by any measure. Population growth is high, and despite advances in raising standards of living among the poor, those living in absolute poverty still number roughly 270 million. Demographic pressures will strain the capacity of the government both to expand social services and preserve fiscal and external balances.
The past year saw economic setbacks for Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka, due largely to ad-
India's fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.
At school in Nepal. An IDA credit of $12.8 million, cofinanced by UN1CEF, is helping to achieve low-cost qualitative improvements in primary education.
verse weather conditions and political turmoil in two of the three countries. The 1987 monsoon season brought severe drought to Sri Lanka, and agricultural production fell by an estimated 6 percent. Economic activity was further hampered in Sri Lanka by a sharp escalation in civil conflict, and, as a result, economic performance declined to the lowest level experienced in a number of years. Bangladesh experienced major flooding, and the government had to increase imports and undertake a major replanting effort in order to avoid a shortfall in the availability of foodgrain. Floods, as well as other economic dislocations, resulted in an economic setback for the country during 1987. Severe floods also struck Nepal, but crop harvests were not seriously affected. The Bank helped recovery efforts in Bangladesh with an IDA credit to help finance the rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, and flood-protection structures damaged by flood-waters from the Brahmaputra and Ganges rivers. In Sri Lanka, over 500,000 people were displaced by the internal conflict, and a Bank project was approved in support of the government's efforts to assist returning refugees, revive economic activities, and restore essential services in the affected areas.
Although the past year's natural disasters required immediate action, programs to address underlying problems of poverty are a major continuing concern for Bangladesh and Nepal. Although
progress in this area is slow and constrained by limited government budgets, evidence from Bangladesh points to a long-term improvement in the living standards of the poorest parts of the population as a result of improved agricultural production and the spread of targeted relief programs aimed at the rural poor. During the year, the Bank assisted Bangladesh with projects to improve rural roads and markets and for urban services and shelter for lower-income groups. In Sri Lanka, efforts are under way to revitalize formerly strong social programs that were adversely affected by the internal conflict. The Bank supported these efforts through a health and population project.
Agricultural production in Nepal, and in recent years in Bangladesh, as well, has been growing more slowly than the rate of population increase, making the governments' stated goal of food-grain self-sufficiency increasingly distant. Achieving greater production will require additional efforts to make modern inputs and improved irrigation available to farmers—efforts which the Bank is supporting with irrigation projects in both countries. Sri Lanka has been more successful in expanding rice production, and the government's priority now is to diversify agricultural production, an undertaking that the Bank is supporting with a tree-crops project.
The Lao People's Democratic Republic, one of the poorest countries in the region, saw GDP de-
cline by 3 percent in 1987, as a severe drought curtailed agricultural production. The government's commitment to reform continued, however, and the Bank's assistance focused on policy dialogue, while supporting road rehabilitation with an IDA credit.
Burma continued to encounter difficulties in its external balances, as export revenues declined further. The government moved to reduce imports further, and, in a departure from previous practice, it liberalized domestic marketing of most agricultural crops.
Extending Reforms in China
China's rapid growth continued with a GDP increase of 9.4 percent in 1987. With the rapid import expansion of 1985 now under control, the current account returned to a position of slight surplus in 1987. These developments, combined with more effective external debt-control procedures, helped confine the growth of China's external debt below expected levels, as it reached an estimated $24.5 billion at the end of 1986. While the external position improved, domestic imbalances of varying degrees continued from 1986 into 1987. "Investment hunger" caused investment to remain at its high level of 38 percent of GDP in 1986, and a retail inflation rate of 7.5 percent in 1987 raised concerns about the degree of overheating and its potential consequences.
Reforms were extended to different sectors as China pursued its transition from direct planning and the central management of output to a reliance on indirect policy levers such as the exchange rate, interest rates, and tax policies. Among urban reforms, most striking are the refinements that have taken place in the system of enterprise management. As before, enterprise reform continues to stress responsibility for profits and losses, but, in addition, under the newer "contract-management system," performance incentives have also been introduced through a system of annual targets for enterprise profits.
The government has taken significant steps toward the greater commercialization of housing through rent increases for public housing and the establishment of a housing bank to provide mortgage finance for housing construction and purchases. In the financial sector, the policy emphasis has focused on the institutional strengthening of existing financial-sector institutions, as well as the establishment of new financial-sector intermediaries, newly licensed investment companies, and the emergence of new financial instruments such as bonds and quasi-equity securities. Reforms were also introduced in the trade-and-payments regime, permitting certain joint-venture enterprises to trade foreign exchange. In the agricultural sector, a Bank rural sector-adjustment operation is supporting the launching of a second phase of reforms. The proj-
ect will help test an extensive program of new land use, consolidation and tenure arrangements, the deregulation of product prices coupled with elimination of input subsidies, and increased incentives for the production of export crops of high value.
These reforms—and the others that have preceded them—have significantly changed the economy's structure through the expansion of individual enterprise and collective autonomy and through the reduction of government interventions in the economy. Employment in state units, for example, is now only 68 percent of total urban employment, compared with 78 percent in 1978. Investment financed by the budget—27 percent in 1978—fell to 12.8 percent in 1986. The share of the state in retail distribution declined from 85 percent of retail sales in 1978 to 39 percent in 1986.
The Bank's advisory role in China is in transition from an earlier emphasis on integrated studies of the macroeconomy to more sectoral and subsec-toral issues. Lending content is shifting, as well, from the relief of infrastructural bottlenecks to more attention to institutional questions, pricing and maintenance issues, and technical assistance. Bank lending in fiscal 1988 supported operations in the areas of transport, energy, education, rural credit, and industry.
Continuing Adjustments
Since the early 1980s, the external environment faced by Indonesia has worsened considerably. Real oil prices have fallen by more than 50 percent, with most of the decline occurring since early 1986. At the same time, Indonesia's external-debt burden rose sharply because of the depreciation of the United States dollar since mid 1985. In response, the government has taken decisive action to restrain domestic demand, mobilize additional resources, and set in train the structural changes needed to develop the nonoil economy. The government's adjustment effort, which was intensified in response to the external shocks of 1986, has had three key elements: the restraint of domestic demand through austere fiscal and monetary policies; the devaluation of the rupiah in late 1986 and flexible exchange-rate management throughout 1987; and continuing reforms in the trade and industrial-policy areas. This strong growth-oriented adjustment effort has succeeded in reducing external and domestic imbalances, while also sustaining a satisfactory rate of economic growth and stimulating a strong performance in nonoil exports.
Despite the loss of oil revenues, total GDP grew by an average of 3.7 percent in both 1986 and 1987, while the nonoil economy grew by about 4 percent. There are also encouraging signs of a recovery in private investment, spurred by deregulation measures and gains in export profitability. The current-account deficit has been reduced from 6
percent of gross national product (GNP) in fiscal year 1987 to an estimated $2 billion, or 3.1 percent of GNP, in fiscal 1988. Financing of these deficits and higher amortization payments were eased considerably by the provision of special assistance in the form of program aid and local-cost financing from various external sources, including the World Bank.
Bank lending to Indonesia in fiscal 1988 supported the government's adjustment efforts through a second trade-policy adjustment loan and through operations in transport, energy, irrigation, and urban development, each designed to improve overall sectoral efficiency and effectiveness. The government's concern for the sustainability of natural-resource use was supported through a forestry conservation and uplands watershed-protection project, and through a major study of environmental issues on Java and in the Outer Islands. The forestry project will help design better forest-management techniques in commercially viable areas, while putting in place more effective measures to protect five conservation areas from encroachment. An important start was also made in the reform of the government's accounting and auditing system through an accountancy-development project.
Although the Philippines emerged from recession to register solid economic growth in 1987, structural problems still persist. The rate of investment remained low, at about 15 percent of GNP, reflecting the continuation of excess capacity in many industries and political uncertainties. The country remains burdened by a large external debt of $28 billion, representing about 82 percent of GNP, but recent reschedulings of repayments have lowered the debt-service ratio to about 31 percent.
Significant policy reforms occurred during the past year. The two largest government banks were restructured, and the government also implemented a program for the privatization or closure of over 100 government corporations. Marked progress was also made in reducing import restrictions. In January 1988, a value-added tax was introduced, and the existing program of land reform in rice and corn areas was accelerated.
The Bank continues to play a major role in helping the government shape economic policy and in providing fresh resources. A public corporate-reform loan will provide $200 million in support of a program of privatization and reforms in the management of public corporations. In addition, project loans in critical areas are being implemented in such subsectors as ports, highways, and irrigation.
Mixed Results in Papua New Guinea and the Small Island Economies
Diversity of economic performance among the Pacific island economies and Papua New Guinea reflects their small size and vulnerability to external factors. The revival of economic growth in Papua New Guinea continued in 1987, as increases in mining and agricultural output and a 35 percent rise in the value of mineral exports contributed to real GDP growth of about 3 percent. After strong growth in 1986, Fiji's economy declined sharply in 1987, as the investment climate deteriorated as a result of political turbulence. The government took action on several fronts, reducing spending and devaluing the currency twice to help protect the balance of payments. Among the smaller island countries, Vanuatu and Solomon Islands are still
coping with the fiscal and balance-of-payments effects of severe cyclone damage and mixed prices for commodity exports. Real GDP declined in both countries by about 5 percent in 1987. Tonga, Western Samoa, and Kiribati have benefited from lower fuel prices, large official transfers, and workers' remittances, and real GDP grew by 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent for the year.
Bank economic and sector work has produced the first general economic report on Kiribati, while
efforts are under way to produce a regional Pacific island economic memorandum as part of the Bank's support for regional aid coordination. A Bank study on agriculture in Papua New Guinea addressed ways to revive this faltering sector and identified new investments for consideration at the first meeting of the consultative group for Papua New Guinea. This meeting, held in May 1988, pledged about $200 million in assistance for development projects over the following twelve months.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
The Europe, Middle East, and North Africa region is a most heterogenous region—culturally, politically, and economically. The addition, since July 1987, of Pakistan to the region continues the tradition of a region rich in its diversity.
The growth experienced by the countries in the region was extremely diverse in 1987. This diversity in economic performance reflected both different exposures to externally induced shocks (principally, the vagaries of the weather, continued low oil prices and fluctuations in other commodity prices, and the depreciation of the United States dollar), as well as different domestic economic policies. Excellent export performance, averaging over 11 percent throughout the region, contributed to an
average regionwide growth rate of about 4 percent in 1987.
Diversity the Theme of Economic Performance in 1987
Continuing the trend of 1986 and propelled by expansionary demand policies and by strong export growth, real gross domestic product (GDP) increased most in Turkey (6.5 percent), Portugal (5.8 percent), and Pakistan (5 percent). Turkey's growth was led by industry, the country's fastest growing sector (up 10 percent in real terms); the agricultural sector registered but a 1.8 percent gain. Turkish exports have done well, rising by 36.7 percent in United States dollar terms, and receipts from tourism and from workers' remittances also increased significantly. Consumption and investment, however, grew at a slower rate than in 1986, partly because of a sharp rise in the private savings rate.
In Portugal, sound domestic economic policies, continuing favorable external factors, and good export performance resulted in a remarkable recovery from the macroeconomic difficulties encountered in the early 1980s. Portugal has had current-account surpluses for the past three years, its fiscal deficit has declined, and inflation has been lowered from over 30 percent in 1982 to about 10 percent in 1987. A good balance-of-payments performance has enabled the country to retire about $2 billion of debt, largely by not renewing short-term credits.
Good agricultural performance, higher cotton prices, and sustained growth of cotton textile exports in Pakistan enhanced export receipts, which grew by 15 percent. Both investment and consumption growth showed increases.
In Morocco, GDP grew at 1.7 percent in 1987 as a result of a severe drought that affected agricultural production. The country expects a bumper cereal crop in 1988, and GDP growth is likely to be about 5.5 percent in 1988. Morocco's export performance has improved due to higher phosphate exports and prices and improved exports of manufactured goods; the current account is expected to be in equilibrium in 1988.
The persistence, in 1988, of drought conditions throughout some Mahgreb countries has been exacerbated by a locust infestation. While the effect
on agricultural growth has yet to be fully assessed, it is clear that Tunisia has been particularly adversely affected. Growth in 1987, however, picked up in Tunisia to 5.8 percent after a year of retrenchment that resulted from the effects of severe drought and a sharp terms-of-trade deterioration caused by the collapse of oil prices. Exports, responding to a 17 percent real depreciation of the dinar in 1986, increased by slightly more than 12 percent per capita. Consumption, however, dropped for the third consecutive year. Tunisia's overall performance was mirrored, in certain respects, in Egypt, where the GNP grew by close to 4 percent without a rise in per capita consumption. Following a de facto devaluation of about 10 percent in the Egyptian pound, exports rose by 11 percent. Imports increased, as well, following two years of restraints. In light of weak oil prices, recovery was weaker in Algeria: GNP grew by less than 2 percent after falling in 1986. Consumption, investments, and imports all decreased, while the growth of exports was moderate.
Jordan's economic performance is linked to the fortunes of the oil-exporting countries. Remittances and grants from these countries typically finance over 60 percent of Jordan's imports. Jor-
dan's economic performance in 1987 remained weak. Growth in GDP was about 2 percent, and unemployment continued to rise, reaching an all-time high of 8 percent. However, the slowdown in growth was not accompanied by a strain on the balance of payments and the budget. Jordan benefited from lower prices of its imports, and remittances did not fall as expected. As a consequence, external borrowing slowed down, and although external debt amounts to about 60 percent of GDP, most of it is on concessional terms. Debt service remains a modest 13 percent of exports.
Economic growth was weak, also, in Poland and Yugoslavia; in Yugoslavia, GNP decreased by 0.5 percent due to a need, resulting from balance-of-payments constraints, to curtail imports and a poor agricultural harvest. Investment and consumption also fell.
Despite a heavy foreign-debt burden—generally aggravated by the appreciation of the yen and of European currencies—balance-of-payments pressures eased in most countries of the region: While the oil-exporting countries continued to adjust their external accounts to lower oil prices, many oil importers benefited from external-adjustment policies recently undertaken. Some also benefited from the
continuing low price of oil; in other countries, however, that benefit was more than balanced by decreases in workers' remittances and declining amounts of development assistance from the high-income oil exporters.
In Algeria, Egypt, and Tunisia, the current-account deficit decreased. However, it remained large and unsustainable (13 percent of GNP) in Egypt. As a result of strong measures taken to reduce domestic absorption and increase convertible-currency exports, Hungary was able to cut its current-account deficit to slightly less than 3 percent of GNP. Similarly, the current-account deficit was reduced substantially in Poland as exports increased by about 5.5 percent, with convertible-currency exports increasing by about 10 percent. Yugoslavia was able to maintain a current-account surplus by expanding its convertible-currency exports and limiting imports. The significant increase in Turkish exports enabled the balance of payments to improve and the current-account deficit to shrink
further to 1.4 percent of GNP—all despite a rise in imports and a bunching of interest payments on its external debt toward the end of 1987. In Pakistan, good export performance helped reduce the current-account deficit to 2 percent of GNP.
The difficult international environment and the attempts to achieve external balance without a domestic contraction were reflected in weakening fiscal policies, as governments' budget deficits worsened in most countries: In Algeria and Pakistan, for example, fiscal deficits were around 9 percent of GNP, while in Turkey, the deficit was 8.3 percent of GNP; and in Egypt, expenditure cuts resulted in a reduction of the deficit, but it still remains unsustainable at 17.8 percent of GNP. Slow growth in Morocco left no room for a planned reduction in the government deficit, which remained at just below 6 percent of GNP, and sizable arrears were accumulated. Even in Portugal, whose performance was otherwise good, the fiscal deficit remains unsustainably high, at 9 percent of GDP.
A truck farm in Cyprus. Agricultural extension in that country is advanced in the techniques of the "training-and-visit" system.
As a result, inflation, as well as real interest rates, are on the rise in many countries, hindering private capital formation and impeding future growth. As a result of low real interest rates in the past few years, national savings declined. Thus, in Egypt, national savings dropped to 1.7 percent of GNP, and high government borrowings in domestic markets have both burdened future budgets and crowded out private investment; and in Turkey, real interest rates are very high, reflecting, for the most part, the scarcity of capital. Finally, rapid monetary expansion has been inflationary in Yugoslavia, creating distortions in the price system, as well as in the financial markets, and making currency management more difficult. These constraints were, of course, less binding for countries such as Pakistan, which can still rely on concessional international borrowings.
Reductions in the fiscal deficits in ways that are compatible both with growth and a return to external creditworthiness appear, at this time, to be the major challenges for the middle-income countries of the region. However, commitment to growth has continued to provide incentives for the pursuit of adjustment policies, and many countries initiated or continued economic-adjustment programs during the year. Reform programs included those for the financial sector (Algeria, Hungary, Turkey, and Yugoslavia), public-sector restructuring (Poland and Tunisia), pricing (Hungary, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, and very likely in Algeria), taxation (Hungary, Morocco, and Tunisia), and trade liberalization (Poland, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia).
Slow Growth in the Two Yemens
The region's two IDA-only recipients, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), also faced serious economic situations. In the former, following the significant fall in economic activity in 1986, heavy expenditures on reconstruction and replacement contributed to a modest increase in real GNP despite a decline in workers' remittances. Economic growth is likely to remain moderate during 1988, workers' remittances are likely to decline further, and pressure on the deteriorating fiscal position is likely to continue. There is an urgent need, therefore, for the government to initiate reforms to reverse these deteriorating trends in the economy. Programs are needed to diversify the economy, promote exports, explore the country's mineral resources, and restrain and restructure public expenditure. Even with such programs in place, however, the resumption of growth will require additional external assistance.
Since the early 1980s, the economy of the YAR has slowed considerably, the consequence of government efforts to control expenditures, as well as adverse and uncontrollable factors such as the effects of droughts throughout 1984 and 1985, a
severe earthquake in late 1982, and a deterioration in external resources. The government has implemented, however, a program to restrain investment and recurrent expenditure, increase tax revenues, and reduce imports. While improvement in the fiscal and external position of the country has taken place, considerable inflationary pressures remain. The effect of oil discoveries in 1984 is likely to be limited, as exports, scheduled to begin in 1988, will be offset by declines in workers' remittances.
Uncertainties in the High-income, Oil-exporting Countries
The persistent weakness in the oil market throughout fiscal 1988 continued to have an adverse effect on the developmental efforts of the high-income, oil-exporting countries (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates), all of whom experienced stagnant or negative rates of growth. To adjust to these changes, efforts are being made to rationalize expenditures and reduce subsidies in public services.
The reduced level of economic activity and expectations of modest growth in the future have brought to the forefront in these countries the issue of the effective integration of the indigenous labor force into the productive sectors, with less reliance on expatriate labor. Governments are becoming more reluctant to act as employers of last resort; as a consequence, the rapidly increasing domestic labor force is facing the problem of matching its qualifications with existing jobs. In many of the high-income, oil-exporting countries, the danger of rising unemployment among unskilled nationals, and also, skills-mismatches, is becoming increasingly clear. This is a problem that requires a serious reconsideration of current higher education systems that have not sufficiently emphasized technical and vocational-training systems.
It is expected that, at least in the short term, any increase in oil revenues of these countries is likely to be limited and that restraint in government expenditure will continue to be exercised. At the same time, there is an increasing call for the private sector to increase its contribution to the growth process, making use of the massive infrastructure in place and applying profits accumulated during the boom years in productive investments in the context of specific incentive schemes. It remains to be seen to what extent the private sector in the various countries will rise to this challenge in the face of limited opportunities for diversification and trade barriers in international markets, particularly against petrochemicals, for which these countries have a comparative advantage.
The Gulf Coordinating Council (GCC), established in 1981, provides a political, economic, and social framework for cooperation among Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. Significant progress to date has
been made on economic matters, including the implementation of regional projects, fiscal integration, and unimpeded movement of goods and labor.
Debt and Adjustment: A Theme for the 1980s
While the region is not usually associated with high-indebtedness problems, creditworthiness and debt-servicing constraints continue to occupy a central point in the future development of several countries of the region. Debt issues are especially important in Algeria, Egypt, Hungary, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, and are becoming a topic of concern in Pakistan. (See Box 6-1.)
The debt burden varies among these countries, with Egypt, Morocco, and Poland the most heavily indebted, and Pakistan the least. Total debt service in the region now amounts to about $25 billion, or an amount equal to more than 7 percent of GNP and 25 percent of exports.
The economic situation faced by many countries in the region during the past fiscal year reflects the
problems encountered during the early to mid 1980s, when growth was adversely affected by several severe and sudden developments in the international economic environment. These problems were exacerbated, in several countries, by ineffective domestic economic management, often characterized by large budget deficits and inappropriate systems of government incentives and controls.
The reduction in the availability of external finance, the deterioration in the terms of trade, and the rise in interest rates encountered by the developing countries during the early to mid 1980s required an improvement in the current account of their balance of payments. Almost all countries of the region improved their current account, and many countries achieved surpluses in their nonin-terest current account of the balance of payments. Nevertheless, the current accounts for most countries in the region are still in deficit, indicating that the region continues to finance part of the servicing of its foreign debt from external sources.
On the domestic front, several kinds of adjustment have been required: an increase in national
Bo\ 6-1.  Comparisons of Indebtedness
International attention to the debt crisis has invariably locuscd upon Latin America or sub Saharjn Ai nca. where, indeed, the burden ol deht remains a major constraint to growth and economic performance However, this hsrus oitcn obscure- the fact that several countries of the Europe. Middle East, and North Atttcu region have been afflicted by slowdowns and debi-'crvicing difficulties that are similar in character and in some respects, in seventy with the problem- facing Latin Amenca and other highf. indebted countries
Ln terms of absolute size "I external debt, ol course the attention io Latin America is appropnjlc The combined external debt ol Brazil and Mexico exceeds the total dcbi of the Europe. Middle East, anj N..nh Alnca region However, in relation io GDP. Esypi and Morocco have higher exiernalderii ratios than .Jo Mexico and Argentina Similarly. Jordan Tunisia and Turkey have debt-to-GDP ratios higher than that of Brazil The ratio of debt-to-exporL- shows the countries of ihe Europe, Middle Ea.-t, and North Alnca region in a more favorable light, with only Morocco and Poland approaching the high ratios of Argentina Brazil, and Mexico. However, one important ditlcr-ence lies in the composition ol the debi A larger proportion of dcht m the countries o| the region is owed io official creditors labour 55 percent of t"lal debti, which i- reflected m a Iai^ propomon of concessional loans iabout 31 percent ni total deisti and a smaller proportion ol variable-interest loans i *7 percenti than for the highly indebted, middle-ino-mc countries of Latin America.
Nevertheless, despite the greater concessional cle-
ment in debt in nuny countries ot the region the burden of debt sen ice >- guile high The How ran.'s that is. ihe ratios ot inlere-t-io-eiporis and to GNP. are thus more appropriate indicators ol relaloc- dcbi burden in the region The nlereslio expon ratios in Algeria. Egypt. Morocco, and Turley are curtc-niK substantially below sinular rati", in Argentina. Brazil Chile, and Mevico This reflect- both ihe relatively large toreign-lrjde sectors in the lomter group as well as the much lower average interest rate yn debt outstanding However, the inictcsl-io-GDP ratio i- more .vomsorne. Morocco for example at b 3 percent of GDP m I4S6. wjs third only [¦:• Chile and
was at aOOUl the salile le'.cl a. Argentina. McmC" and Venezuela Hungar. Ponucai. anj Tuni-1.1 all ha.c interest t.i-GDP ratios aO^'e the average m the highly indebted, middlc-iiiconie countries j- a w hole Interest-payment ratios in Jordan Tunisia, and Tur key. at around 4 percent GDP are at about the same level as m Brazil, implying that a larce proportion of domestic -a' tngs—up to a quarter—hane to be remitted externally
While world attention will no duubi continue io focus on Latin America, tl i- clear lhai there i- little si ope ior complacency for several cOunme- .i| the Europe. Middle Easi. and North Alnca region in dealing with then lulure Jcht-crvice obligations By atv compar.iii.e measures Egypt. Morocco and Poland tare a considerable challenge and other countries such as Algeria. Hungary Portugal. Tuni-ia. and Turkey, have dc-hi obligation- that arc lart-e enough to leaie little room for error in niacrocconomic and debt management.
savings to accommodate both a decline in net borrowing and an increased level of debt service; increases in public-sector savings (since most debt is owed by governments); and a shift of resources to tradeables.
While countries of the region have had considerable success in shifting resources to tradeables, the problem of mobilizing incremental savings for, or by, the public sector has proved far more difficult. Beginning in the early 1980s, most borrowers ran substantial budget deficits. To implement needed adjustment without reducing investment or increasing inflation would have required some combination of reduction in the noninterest public-sector deficits and increases in private savings. Reducing public-sector deficits posed a serious dilemma, however, since the public sector needed to increase spending to service debt. Payments of interest in domestic currency were increased further by the devaluations undertaken to help accomplish balance-of-payments adjustment. However, the capacity to reduce current expenditures was limited, both by the need to maintain essential services and a reluctance to cut back ongoing programs to existing beneficiaries; and the capacity to raise revenues in the short term was limited by an inability to broaden tax bases and institutional weakness in revenue collection. Although in some countries the budget deficit increased after the initial external shocks, it tended to decline in a number of countries that instituted stabilization and reform programs. Deficits have again widened recently, however, in Turkey and Pakistan, and are still large in Egypt.
The reduction in the public-sector deficits was almost always accompanied by reduction in investment expenditures. This was partly the result of
direct cuts in public investment (with the exception of Turkey), while, in other cases, reductions in investment occurred indirectly as a consequence of the effect of efforts to finance the public-sector deficit. Increased domestic public-sector borrowing resulted, in several instances, in high interest rates and a crowding out of the private sector or high rates of inflation with adverse effects on private investment. As a consequence of these developments, investment, as a proportion of GDP, decreased in almost all countries during the period 1982-87. While the adjustment efforts frequently resulted in some productivity gains, they were usually not enough to offset the adverse effect on GNP growth of the reduction in the rate of investment. Thus, with the exception of Pakistan and Turkey, where investment rates were either maintained or quickly restored, growth rates of GDP were substantially lower in the 1980s as compared with the 1970s.
Debt restructuring was helpful in dealing with both the domestic and external dimensions of the adjustment effort. It eased the adjustment effort in the current account and it provided relief to public-sector finances. Egypt, Morocco, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Turkey, and Yugoslavia all rescheduled their debt, either with the Paris Club or commercial bankers, or both. Some did so several times. Pakistan and Turkey, however, have not had to reschedule since the early 1980s.
Even the combination of debt rescheduling and significant adjustment efforts proved inadequate, for total debt has increased by about 45 percent during the period 1980-86. One half of the total increase represents additional net flows, while the other half represents increased obligations in United States dollars as a result of the United States dollar
depreciation, since 1985, against other major currencies. Net capital inflows into the region have decreased dramatically—from about $13.9 billion in 1980 to $4.3 billion in 1986. Since 1983, net inflows have been smaller than interest payments, resulting in negative net transfers, which, in 1986, amounted to over $6 billion, or 1.4 percent of GNP.
The increase in long-term debt was about equally divided between official and private creditors. Almost two thirds of the net flows come from official creditors, while the rest comes from private, mostly commercial, banks. World Bank net flows accounted for a quarter of the total during this period, but this share has been rising significantly since 1986. And, despite the adjustments made, all debt indicators deteriorated for the region as a whole between 1982 and 1987. This deterioration was partly the result of new international developments, such as the exchange-rate changes in the major currencies that required even further adjustment efforts for developing countries to reach the target of restored creditworthiness.
Egypt, Morocco, and Poland are those countries of the region that face the greatest challenges in future debt servicing. In United States dollar terms, Algeria, Hungary, Portugal, and Turkey have been the hardest hit by currency-valuation adjustments because a high proportion of their debt is denominated in appreciating currencies.
World Bank Operations, Fiscal 1988
In this environment of difficult external and domestic economic conditions, the World Bank continued to provide assistance for adjustment efforts—both at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels—aimed at strengthening the capacity of countries to implement reforms in the industry, energy, trade, agriculture, and financial sectors. With a first structural-adjustment loan in Tunisia and several sector-adjustment loans in three countries (Hungary, Morocco, and Turkey), policy-based lending reached a new high for the region, with amounts totaling $1,005.1 million, or about 30 percent of total lending for the year. Turkey remained the region's largest borrower from the Bank, with $1,064 million in loan commitments
from the IBRD in fiscal 1988. Efforts to secure both official and commercial cofinancing from Japan continued; a $400 million loan from the Bank supported the continuation of the restructuring of Turkey's financial sector, which was cofinanced with a loan of not less than $400 million from Japan's Export-Import Bank.
Lending for human-resource development—still, as documented in last year's Annual Report, a major challenge in the region—was supported through education projects in Algeria, Jordan, Portugal, and Turkey, and policy discussions on education and health were initiated with several other borrowers with a view to strengthening lending operations in the near future. Project lending continued in the agriculture, energy, industry, and transportation sectors and included a major new initiative in Pakistan, in which a Bank loan was used as a catalyst for private finance for a large-scale, privately owned-and-operated electric-power plant.
The past year also saw an increase in active collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme in a number of countries (Algeria, Pakistan, and the Yemen Arab Republic) and the implementation of an innovative regional energy-planning project that encourages collaboration among countries in a number of energy-planning and policy activities.
Finally, a new initiative in the environment field—the Environmental Program for the Mediterranean (EPM)—was launched. The EPM represents the single largest environmental initiative to date in the World Bank. It builds upon ongoing work under the United Nations-sponsored Mediterranean Action Plan and is jointly financed by the European Investment Bank. The work program is planned to be carried out in several phases with the objective of financing a number of high-priority, environmentally sound investments. The EPM's first phase, which will be completed by early 1989, consists of a series of investigative studies on the status of environmental problems in countries surrounding the Mediterranean and the identification of actions, policies, and cost-effective investments designed to reverse significantly environmental deterioration.
Latin America and the Caribbean
Economic growth in the Latin America and the Caribbean region during 1987 and early 1988 was uneven and generally less than sufficient to make significant headway in recovering to the levels of per capita output, income, and consumption that had prevailed during the 1979-81 period. Per capita growth in gross domestic product (GDP) fell from 1.6 percent in 1986 to only 0.4 percent in 1987 and early 1988 (on an annual basis). Excluding Brazil, whose weight in regional averages is
large, GDP growth in 1986 and 1987 was -1 percent and 0 percent, respectively. This low level of growth was accompanied by a decline in the current-account deficit of the balance of payments to $10 billion (which may be difficult to sustain) and by an acceleration of inflation. This record of aggregate regional performance was influenced greatly by the experience of the larger countries, Brazil and Argentina, and the main oil exporters (Mexico, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Trinidad and Tobago), which overshadowed strengthened recoveries in Belize, Chile, Colombia, Jamaica, and Uruguay.
The price-stabilization programs of Argentina (the Austral Plan of June 1985) and Brazil (the Cruzado Plan of February 1986) were effective initially in controlling inflation and accelerating recovery of output. The Austral Plan can be judged to have been a qualified success, but because of various circumstances, inflationary pressures eventually reappeared and trade surpluses diminished. Economic performance since late 1986 in both countries has been largely determined by new efforts to control inflationary pressures and emerging external imbalances. Difficulties in reconciling a viable balance-of-payments position with the control of inflation, as well as the reduction of public-sector deficits affected by the burden imposed by debt service and other internal imbalances, have increased the cost of adjustment programs, as reflected in the reduction of per capita consumption levels and a general slowdown in economic growth. In many countries, as in Argentina, projections demonstrate the continued fragility of the external-financing situation and the vulnerability of the economy to the international economic environment.
Brazil's trade surplus has already regained recent high levels, but deceleration of per capita GDP growth has been significant, and inflation is higher than before the inauguration of the Cruzado Plan. Bolivia managed to stop its hyperinflation through radical fiscal and monetary measures, but has continued to suffer large imbalances on external accounts and had only a small rise in GDP in 1987 after six consecutive years of decline.
The fall in oil prices prompted further adjustments in the main oil-exporting countries during late 1985 and 1986. Notwithstanding the partial recovery of oil prices in early 1987, contractionary
adjustments were reflected in further declines in GDP per capita during 1987 in Mexico, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Trinidad and Tobago. Although output began to recover in Mexico, the pace of recovery may slow because of the adoption of austerity measures to control inflation. Increasing exports of Mexican manufactures led the recovery of output, and strong export performance brought about a large trade surplus. In Venezuela, a partial program of corrective measures was initiated in December 1986. However, the rate of growth of output remained slow, and inflation reached record levels.
In contrast, recovery has been sustained in Colombia and Chile for more than two years, and in Jamaica and Uruguay, since early 1986. Despite considerable variation in initial macroeconomic imbalances, debt burdens, and structural constraints, these countries have been able to sustain and deepen their adjustment efforts.
Colombia's recession in the 1981-85 period resulted in stagnation of GDP per capita rather than in the large declines observed elsewhere. Per capita growth is now quickly recovering to the rate that had prevailed throughout the 1960s and 1970s. Notwithstanding the increases of the past two years,
GDP per capita in Chile, Jamaica, and Uruguay is still somewhat below the precrisis levels of 197981, and per capita income and consumption are well below those levels. Still, Chile's GDP growth in the period 1984-87 has increased 5.4 percent on an annualized basis. Inflation has not been a major problem in these countries, although it remains high in Uruguay (around 60 percent a year) and has accelerated slightly in Colombia (up to 25 percent a year).
Economic conditions in Peru and the Dominican Republic have sharply changed since early 1987. Recovery of output that was based on expansionary policies continued until mid 1987, but this resulted in external imbalances and accelerated inflation by the end of 1987. The Dominican Republic has implemented corrective measures that have already brought about some contraction in domestic demand, while the adjustments in relative prices have accelerated inflation. The Peruvian government has also implemented corrective measures, but the external imbalance is still quite high, and inflation is accelerating.
In Central America, economic performance showed little improvement in the past eighteen months, except in Costa Rica, which has been
slowly recovering for more than two years. Per capita GDP is still well below the precrisis levels in these countries. Trade deficits exist in all the Central American countries, and reduced levels of foreign aid have been offset mainly by increases in arrears and further losses in reserves. Inflation remained variable but low, except in Nicaragua, where it has been extraordinarily high.
Other Caribbean countries were not as successful as Jamaica in continuing their recovery or expansion during the past eighteen months. Some reversal in the favorable external conditions of 1986, especially in tourism and oil prices, decelerated GDP growth. However, structural adjustment has strengthened, particularly in Haiti (since March 1987) and in Dominica (since 1986).
Debt Problems Persist
The total external debt of the region at the end of 1987 was estimated at $420 billion. About one half of this amount is long-term public-sector debt with commercial banks, including publicly guaranteed debt. Total external debt, expressed as a percentage of exports of goods and services, increased from 270 percent at the end of 1982 to 350 percent at the end of 1987—a 30 percent increase, or 6 percent on an annualized basis over the five-year period. This increase in the dollar value of debt was mainly due to the depreciation of the United States dollar in the period 1985-87. Total debt, expressed as a percentage of gross national product (GNP), increased by 30 percent in the period 1982-87. Despite the increase in total debt, interest payments, expressed as a percentage of both exports of goods and services and GNP, declined by 25 percent to 30 percent in that five-year period, reflecting debt rescheduling, interest arrears, and falling interest rates.
The external debt of the highly indebted, middle-income countries (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela) at the end of 1987 was estimated at $389 billion, of which around 57 percent ($223 billion) is long-term public-sector debt with commercial banks (including publicly guaranteed debt). The regional figures conceal great diversity among countries. The range of debt burden varies from 115 percent of GDP in Chile to 27 percent of GDP in Jamaica; total external debt as a percentage of the exports of goods and services ranged from more than 600 for Bolivia to around 200 for Colombia. Interest payments effectively paid ranged from 8 percent of GDP in Chile to 2 percent in Peru, which has tied its debt servicing to its export earnings.
Ways to deal with the debt crisis have been evolving since 1982. In a first stage through late 1984, priority was given to debtor countries' economic adjustment, both to sharply decreased availability of external financing and income losses from
increased international interest rates and worsened terms of trade. Debt-restructuring agreements facilitated adjustment of debt-service payments to ability to pay. Multilateral official lenders provided additional financing. Debtor countries drastically reduced domestic absorption, in particular, investment and imports. Thus, the external adjustment was accompanied by a sharp reduction in growth, and, in some cases, a decline in output.
By 1985, the international strategy emphasized resumption of economic growth as a priority objective. Domestic economic reform in debtor countries and increased financial support from commercial banks and official lenders were to be the main instruments.
Results have been mixed. In Chile and Uruguay, for instance, recovery of growth has taken place through implementation, at an early stage, of adjustment policies. Mexico is currently undergoing in-depth adjustment, although growth is being constrained by the strong stabilization measures that have been adopted to lower inflation. In a number of countries, however, adjustment efforts have not met expectations. The reasons are several: lower growth of the world economy, insufficient external resources to support adjustment efforts, and failure by some debtor countries to undertake economic reform. In addition, several countries have been affected by adverse terms of trade.
These uneven results are reflected in actions first begun in early 1987 by both debtor countries and commercial banks. They include larger interest arrears, increases in loss provisions and some debt write-downs, substantial declines in secondary-market prices, and a proliferation of proposals for debtor countries to take advantage of the low prices of debt. These occurrences stem, in part, from increasing political difficulties experienced by some governments from a too-rapid pace of economic reform and the length of time involved in restoring creditworthiness. Pressures have intensified on commercial banks to strengthen their balance sheets, and problems have emerged due to divergent long-term business interests among the ranks of commercial banks. At the same time, 1987 saw encouraging developments in the evolution of the "menu" approach, including the emergence of new financing options and voluntary market-based techniques that reduce the stock of debt.
These developments are likely to further encourage negotiations for a reduction in the present value of commercial banks' claims. Some restructuring agreements have already included mechanisms for debt reduction, such as those that facilitate debt-equity conversions at a discount. Although future negotiations may focus directly on reducing debt through either conversion or repurchase, it is difficult to predict how comprehensive future debt settlements will be.
The agreement reached between commercial
A capital-goods plant in Mexico. In fiscal 1988, the Bank supported the country's comprehensive and far-reaching policy reforms for both the public and private steel sectors with a $400 million loan.
banks and the Bolivian government allowed the repurchase of $308 million of outstanding debt at a discount. The repurchase is being financed with earmarked funds from donor countries, and Bolivia may soon be able to extinguish as much as one half of its debt to commercial banks. Through different mechanisms of conversion and repurchase at a discount, Chile has reduced its debt with commercial banks by 25 percent (most of the reduction has involved private-sector debt or publicly guaranteed debt). Mexico has reduced debt with commercial banks by over 5 percent (of which 1.7 percent was through the bond-exchange offer of March 1988).
Late in the fiscal year, the government of Brazil and the Bank Advisory Committee for Brazil reached preliminary agreement on a medium-term financing package designed to normalize Brazil's relations with its commercial-bank creditors worldwide.
The effectiveness of the agreement, together with an interim financing agreement announced in November 1987, would allow Brazil to regularize interest payments to commercial bariks and terminate formally the suspension of interest instituted in February 1987.
The medium-term package contained a significant menu of options, providing the commercial banks with different incentives to participate. The new-money facilities in the package total $5.2 billion to help Brazil cover its financing needs for 1987, 1988, and the first half of 1989. The package also included a multiyear restructuring agreement covering approximately $61 billion of Brazil's medium-term and long-term debt to commercial banks, as well as trade and interbank facilities, totaling about $15 billion, under which commercial banks will continue to extend short-term trade and interbank lines.
The World Bank, which had an important catalytic role in the process, made no guarantees or B-loans. The credit enhancement provided by the Bank did distinguish the new commercial bank money from the old, however, through parallel financing and cofinancings with optional cross-default clauses.
Voluntary mechanisms to reduce debt will help speed recovery of per capita income, particularly in those countries with strong debt overhang and less resilient economies. However, debt reduction will not be sufficient by itself to permit a resumption of steady growth in the absence of crucial
domestic reforms. This is especially true in those countries where further significant policy and institutional reforms are required to achieve more balance between public-sector revenues and expenditures.
Activities of the Bank, Fiscal 1988
The Bank continued its active policy dialogue and lending program to the region in fiscal 1988. Total lending commitments for thirty-seven operations were $5.3 billion, an amount $112 million above fiscal 1987 totals. Gross disbursements to countries in the region were at about the same level as in fiscal 1987—which was some 50 percent above amounts disbursed during the period fiscal 1984 to fiscal 1986. Net transfers declined, however, in part due to repayments to the Bank in appreciating nondollar currencies. With continuing scarcity of external resources for the region, the Bank has become more important as a source of capital flows to the region—and more highly exposed, in both absolute and relative terms.
An increasing proportion, about 40 percent, of Bank commitments were in the form of adjustment lending in six countries to support economic policy reforms aimed at promoting stabilization, overcoming structural constraints, and strengthening institutions. Mexico and Argentina were the largest recipients, followed by Colombia. Adjustment lending supported policy reforms in the trade, fertilizer, and agricultural sectors in Mexico; the banking sector in Argentina; and the power sector in Colombia. The third in a series of broader structural-adjustment loans was made in Chile. Other adjustment lending supported reforms in the financial sectors in Bolivia and Ecuador. Adjustment lending, linked to policy progress, will continue to
be important in the highly indebted countries in the near term.
Although its adjustment lending has expanded, the Bank also provided substantial traditional investment project lending in twelve countries. Brazil was the main recipient, followed by Mexico, Argentina, and Colombia. Project lending supported agricultural and housing credit; irrigation; development and maintenance of port, highway, and roads facilities; education and manpower training; power supplies; water supplies; industrial restructuring; housing; and urban and municipal development. An emergency reconstruction loan was made to El Salvador to rebuild after an earthquake. The Bank also continued its support of Bolivia's innovative emergency social fund (for details, see page 66). Project lending in the region is expected to expand modestly in the next few years.
Table 6-12 shows the sectoral breakdown of total Bank lending to the region. Agriculture, industry, and development finance companies were the main areas of lending.
The Bank carried out a strong economic policy dialogue with its Latin American and Caribbean borrowers with increased staff resources in fiscal 1988. This dialogue covers stabilization and debt-management issues, as well as medium-term to longer-term constraints to growth with a focus on the detail of needed policy reforms and issues of transition. Continuing themes have been on improving the efficiency of the public sector—particularly with regard to investment planning, taxation, and public enterprises—trade policies, and domestic regulation. Work on the environment, poverty, and the social costs of adjustment is being deepened. Improved targetting in the social sectors has also received increased attention.
The Bank also continued its efforts to mobilize external resources for the Latin America and Caribbean countries, working closely with other creditors and donors, particularly through consultative and aid groups. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) has been successful in this regard, and it is hoped that this approach can be extended.
The CGCED has been successful in meeting both the external financing needs of its recipient countries and in creating a forum conducive to the discussion of current economic and development issues. In December 1987, at the eighth meeting of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee of the CGCED held in Kingston, Jamaica, special subgroup meetings for St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Jamaica were held. These subgroup meetings produced support from the donors sufficient to close the expected financing gaps of both countries for the next three years. The CGCED has also served as a starting point for development and implementation of resource-mobilization plans of individual countries (Jamaica, for instance), with others to follow in the future.
At a ninth meeting of the CGCED, held in Washington, D.C. in June, donor countries confirmed financial commitments totaling $3 billion over the next three years to support development programs in the Caribbean countries.
Cofinancing Volume Lessens
The volume of cofinancing to countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region in fiscal 1988 was $1,251 million, an amount $183 million less than in the year before. The principal reasons are twofold: the continuation during the year of Brazil's protracted negotiations with its creditors, which has been blocking the flow of financing, including cofinancing, and, in a number of other countries, the continued reluctance of private banks, as well as export-credit agencies, to increase their exposure. Japan has become the largest individual source of cofinancing in the countries of the region; most of Japan's cofinancing is in the form of untied, yen-denominated loans.
Bolivian school children pumping water at a handpump installation that is part of the joint Bank-UNDP project for "water supply for low-income communities." The project is currently active in seventeen countries throughout the developing world.
Section Seven
Summaries of Projects Approved for IBRD, IDA, and African Facility Assistance in Fiscal Year 1988
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in This Section
ADF—African Development Fund AfDB—African Development Bank AFESD—Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development AsDB—Asian Development Bank BADEA—Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa BOAD—West African Development Bank CCCE—Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique CDC—Commonwealth Development
Corporation CIDA—Canadian International
Development Agency DANIDA—Danish International
Development Agency DIGIS—Directoraat Generaal Voor
Internationale Samenwerking EDF—European Development Fund EEC-—European Economic Community EIB—European Investment Bank FAC—Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation FAO—Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations GTZ—German Technical Assistance
Corporation
IDB—Inter-American Development Bank IFAD—International Fund for Agricultural
Development KFAED—Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development KfW—Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau NORAD—Norwegian Agency for
International Development ODA—Overseas Development
Administration OECF—Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund
OPEC—Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries SDC—Swiss Development Corporation SFD—Saudi Fund for Development SIDA—Swedish International Development
Authority UNCDF—United Nations Capital
Development Fund UNDP—United Nations Development
Programme UNICEF—United Nations Children's
Fund
USAID—United States Agency for International Development
Agriculture and Rural Development
ALGERIA: IBRD—$14 million. An irrigation-engineering project has, as its objective, the creation of an adequate portfolio of well-prepared irrigation projects in the context of a well-defined investment program, which would increase farm output and internal food supply, as well as raise rural income. Total cost: $20 million.
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$106.5 million. A second agricultural-credit project seeks to draw private and provincial banks into agricultural investment lending through an apex lending operation that will provide credit to modernize farm machinery and facilitate the adoption of cost-effective technology. Cofinancing ($105 million) is anticipated from the IDB. Total cost: $355.5 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$81.5 million. Food production is expected to increase through
support of investments in small-scale subprojects to protect agricultural land against floods, prevent salt-water intrusion, improve drainage, and provide water for irrigation. In addition, the capacity of the Bangladesh Water Development Board to implement new projects and to operate and maintain completed projects will be strengthened, and damaged flood-protection, drainage, irrigation, and town-protection infrastructure will be restored. Cofinancing ($9.6 million) is anticipated from CIDA. Total cost: $111 million. BELIZE: IBRD—$7.8 million. Agricultural exports are to be expanded, the country's agricultural financial system strengthened, and the policy environment for private investment in agricultural-export activities
Data used in this section have been compiled from documentation provided at the time of project approval.
further improved. Cofinancing for the technical-assistance component is expected from Japan ($500,000), the ODA ($100,000), and the FAO ($100,000). Total cost: $12.3 million.
BENIN: IDA—$21 million. The project would continue the rural-development activities started under a First Borgou Project, consolidate the substantial gains made, and improve productivity at farm and executing-agency levels. A medium-term restructuring program would also be initiated through a reorganization of the cotton subsector. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($20.9 million), I FAD ($10.5 million), and BOAD ($7.1 million). Total cost: $67.3 million.
BHUTAN: IDA—$1.1 million. A second forestry project seeks to strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of the Bhutan Logging Corporation and the Forestry Department to control the epidemic pest outbreak in coniferous forest areas; coordinate management planning, pest management, harvesting, and reforestation; produce and market wood; and institute effective financial control. Cofinancing ($5 million) is anticipated from Switzerland. Total cost: $31.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$300 million. Productive agroindustrial investments will be promoted, and by facilitating the expansion of commercial credit and the simultaneous contraction of official credit, the country's fiscal deficit will be reduced and the efficiency of investment decisions improved. Total cost: $600 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$300 million. This agricultural-credit project represents the first step towards implementation of a strategy to replace most subsidized farm credit with commercial lending at market rates, thereby contributing to a reduction in the fiscal deficit and improving the efficiency of investment decisions. Total cost: $600 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$195 million. About 50,000 farmers in ten states of the center-west, southeast, and southern regions of the country, as well as in the federal district, will benefit from a project that will finance supporting infrastructure—electricity distribution and hydraulic works—for irrigation development. The project will also strengthen institutional capacity to oversee irrigation development, including decentralized planning and execution of irrigation investments to the state and local levels, and preparation of policies and an organizational framework for the continued
expansion of private irrigation and improved management of water resources. Total cost: $435 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$132 million. Through technical assistance and the provision of finance, the human cost of resettlement of almost 8,000 families displaced by the construction of the new Itaparica reservoir will be mitigated. Irrigation development, other rural infrastructure and services, and urban resettlement into four new townships will enable these families to resume their lives under conditions at least comparable to, and, in some cases better than, those existing before the reservoir's flooding. Total cost: $303.7 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$48.5 million. Up to 165,000 hectares of industrial-scale forests will be planted and charcoal-manufacturing infrastructure built in Minas Gerais state. In addition, planting of about 40,000 hectares of small-scale wood lots for use by small farmers will be financed, as will a forestry-conservation program. Total cost: $100 million.
BURKINA FASO: IDA—$17.9 million. Support will be provided for the first five-year phase of a long-term development plan for agricultural research that includes strengthening and consolidation of the capacity of the national agricultural research institute to plan, execute, and evaluate research programs; improvements in the balance and coordination among individual research programs; and a strengthening of links between research and extension services. Total cost: $18.8 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$10 million. About 35,000 farmers in Muyinga province are to benefit directly from a project designed to increase agricultural production, develop crop and input marketing through cooperatives and the private sector, strengthen agricultural services, and promote environmental protection. Total cost: $15.6 million.
CAMEROON: IBRD—$103 million. Through policy and institutional changes and through measures aimed at alleviating production constraints, the current stagnation in cocoa output may be overcome, thus permitting the subsector once again to become an important source of foreign exchange. Cofinancing ($3 million) is expected from the GTZ. Total cost: $285.4 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA— $15 million. The government's adjustment program for the cotton sector, which aims at reducing the inefficiencies of the cotton industry and paving the way for a broader-based agricultural-development strategy in
cotton-dominant areas, will be supported. Special joint financing will be provided by Japan ($6 million) and Saudi Arabia ($2 million).
CHAD: IDA—$18.6 million. The first five-year stage of a long-term program to strengthen the livestock sector—its main objectives are to increase national livestock production, producer income, and government revenues on a sustainable basis—will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($11.6 million), the DIGIS ($1.8 million), and the FAC ($1.3 million). Total cost: $37.2 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$200 million; IDA—$100 million. A rural-sector adjustment credit is designed to support the inception of the country's second phase of rural economic reform, whose main aims are to foster agricultural development and specialization, increase economic efficiency, encourage nonfarm rural enterprises, expand rural exports, provide productive off-farm employment opportunities, reduce agricultural and urban food subsidies, improve agricultural tax bouyancy, and improve the range and efficiency of rural financial services.
CHINA: IDA—$170 million. Through a third rural-credit project, the growth and diversification of agriculture will be stimulated and the operational efficiency of the Agricultural Bank of China increased through institutional development. Total cost: $340 million.
CHINA: IDA—$103 million. The income levels and living standards of about 122,600 households in the Nei Monggol and Ningxia autonomous regions will be improved through improvement and expansion of irrigated areas, provision of needed inputs, and the strengthening of research and extension systems. Training and technical assistance are included. Total cost: $234 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$40 million; IDA—$60 million. The Jiangsu and Zhejiang provincial governments will be assisted in developing coastal lowlands, mudflats, and shoals for culture fisheries, thus allowing coastal dwellers to switch from the already over-exploited offshore fishing industry to mariculture and supplement their agricultural earnings through livestock and horticulture. Total cost: $217 million.
CHINA: IDA—$56.9 million. In the aftermath of China's most disastrous forest fire ever (May 1987, in northern Heilongjiang province), operations to salvage the burned timber will be supported, the Ministry of Forestry will be helped in establishing a
comprehensive fire-protection system in the country's forest area, and a tree-seed production program and research to determine a forest-regeneration system will be supported. Total cost: $517 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$15 million. Through technical assistance, training, and the supply of equipment, the Caja Agraria, the country's most important financial intermediary for agriculture, will be rebuilt into a more efficient and self-sustaining financial intermediary, more dependent on financial market mechanisms to support its activities, thereby helping to improve the overall efficiency of rural financial markets. Total cost: $35 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$11.9 million. A fifth rubber project, relying on the concept of nucleus estates surrounded by smallholder plantations, will contribute significantly to meeting the government's target of 100,000 hectares of new plantings by the turn of the century and to supporting crop diversification so as to reduce economic dependence on cocoa and coffee. Cofinancing is expected from the CDC ($12.2 million) and the CCCE ($11.1 million). Total cost: $58.9 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$30 million. The second phase of the Southern Conveyor Project for Water-resources Development will complement the investments made under the first phase to secure a reliable source of domestic water supply to meet the needs of four major population areas at least to the year 2000 and to provide irrigation water in order to maintain current agricultural production in Kokkinokhoria and to expand irrigated agriculture elsewhere. Institutional development is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from the KFAED ($15.4 million) and suppliers' credits ($25.6 million). Total cost: $164 million.
GHANA: IDA—$40 million. The rehabilitation of the cocoa industry will be aided through a national project that aims at improving technical services for cocoa producers, strengthening research, maintaining the internal marketing system, and upgrading feeder roads. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($33 million) and is being sought from others ($18 million). Total cost: $128 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$9 million. Serving as a catalyst for ongoing activities and building on existing institutions, a national seed-production system will be set up to identify, produce, and distribute improved rice, maize, and groundnuts seed. Total cost: $10.6 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$70 million. By providing funds through the commercial banking system to about seventy agroprocessing enterprises to modernize their facilities and to introduce improved management, marketing, and technology, the agroprocessing subsector will be better able to penetrate new international markets, improve the quality of their products, and increase sales and profitability. Total cost: $160 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$200 million; IDA—$160 million. This second national dairy project seeks to expand, over a seven-year period, the number of village dairy cooperatives, as well as dairy processing and marketing infrastructure. In addition, measures to enhance dairy productivity and strengthen the institutions involved will be developed. Total cost: $677.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$150 million; IDA—$200 million. India will be assisted in meeting the costs and the reconstruction/rehabilitation requirements resulting from the drought. In addition, the government will be supported in sustaining and enhancing the momentum of economic reform during the drought and in developing and implementing its longer-term strategy for increasing resistance to drought.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$234 million. Assistance will be provided in support of the government's policies in the irrigation subsector that call for increased efforts at efficient operation and maintenance, the introduction of direct cost-recovery mechanisms, and rationalization of existing and programmed investments. Special maintenance works will be financed, efficient operations and maintenance supported, priority irrigation works completed, and institutional strengthening and training supported. Cofinancing is expected from the Netherlands ($11.8 milion), Italy ($3 million), and the Ford Foundation ($600,000). Total cost: $359.1 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$34 million. The planning, management, and conservation efforts in the forestry subsector will be strengthened so as to maximize long-term contributions from forest resources and protect the environment. Total cost: $63 million.
KENYA: IDA—$19.6 million. This five-year time slice of a long-term agricultural-research development plan comprises assistance for restructuring of Kenya Agricultural Research Institute's organization and management, rehabilitation and provision of adequate equipment and operating funds to regional
research centers, and support for key national crop, livestock, factor, and disciplinary research programs. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($28.5 million), the EEC ($19.1 million), the ODA ($10.2 million), the Netherlands ($10.1 million), and others (Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Sweden, and the UNDP/FAO) in the amount of $10.6 million. Total cost: $203.8 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$16 million. To help arrest land degradation and maintain land resources, governmental institutions will be strengthened to enable them to assist district and village development councils in development planning and in preparing and implementing land-resource management plans. SIDA is providing grant funds for technical assistance. Total cost: $20.2 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$7 million. The capacity of the Forestry Department to plan and manage the forestry subsector and focus its activities on priority programs will be strengthened. In addition, further degradation of protected natural forests will be prevented, private reforestation stimulated, and a parastatal plantation assisted in attracting private investment for wood-processing activities. Cofinancing is expected from Switzerland ($6.5 million) and Norway ($2 million). Total cost: $22.6 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$5.9 million. Large numbers of smallholders are to benefit from the establishment of a national agricultural-credit system that would allocate its resources flexibly, meet the demand for credit, and initiate measures to mobilize rural savings. In addition, ways in which group credit might be extended for off-farm economic activities will be explored. Cofinancing ($6.9 million) is being provided by IFAD. Total cost: $14.4 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$66 million. Some 18,000 new participant farm families and 27,000 families already involved are to benefit from a Second FELCRA (Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority) Land Development Project that would finance a three-year time slice of FELCRA's development program that includes rehabilitation of land to support oil palm, rubber, and other crops; maintenance of rehabilitated areas; construction of needed infrastructure; and institutional support. Total cost: $188 million.
MALI: IDA—$39.8 million; African Facility— $9 million. The restructuring of, and investments in, the Office du Niger will be supported in order to increase agricultural
productivity and establish a sustainable production system. Special joint financing is expected from the Federal Republic of Germany ($19 million); other cofinancing is available from the FAC ($2 million), the DIGIS ($1.3 million), and the CCCE ($400,000). Total cost: $83.6 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$300 million. A first agricultural-sector loan will support the government's program of continuing reforms and achievements in the areas of consumer food subsidies and their targeting, improvement of producer-pricing policies, privatization of parastatals, agricultural and agroindustrial trade liberalization, streamlining and decentralization of the Ministry of Agriculture, rationalization of public investments in agriculture, and reduction of input subsidies.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$225 million. The second phase of implementation of the government's medium-term agricultural-sector adjustment program—its objectives are to foster efficient agricultural growth and to contribute to the reduction of budgetary and current-account deficits to manageable levels while minimizing the social costs of adjustment— will be supported.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$23 million. Through increased crop and livestock production, almost 10,000 farm families will benefit from a project whose central objective is to pursue and strengthen the systematic approach to the development of small and medium-scale irrigation that was initiated with an earlier (1983) project. Total cost: $44.9 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$41.3 million. Agricultural production and farm income will be raised through expansion and management-improvement of a public irrigation system, through construction and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes, and through restoration of flood-damaged irrigation schemes and river-protection works. In addition, operation and maintenance, as well as cost recovery in the project areas, will be improved, and the country's irrigation subsector strengthened. Total cost: $46.7 million.
NIGER: IDA—$9.3 million. Assistance will be provided to the government to help improve its institutional capability to prepare, appraise, execute, and evaluate site-specific small rural operations. Cofinancing ($7.8 million) is expected from Switzerland. Total cost: $18 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$79.5 million. Farm income and agricultural production will be increased by improving the reliability and equitability of irrigation-water supplies and reducing
crop losses from rain flooding. In addition, the ability of the provincial irrigation departments to carry out efficiently the operation and maintenance of irrigation, drainage, and flood-control systems will be strengthened. Cofinancing is anticipated from USAID ($95.3 million) and the Netherlands ($8.5 million). Total cost: $220.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$31.4 million; IDA—$20 million. A national oilseed-development project, to be implemented in all four provinces of the country, is designed to achieve a substantial increase in the production of oilseeds, particularly nontraditional oilseeds, with a view to reducing edible-oil and meal imports. Total cost: $84.2 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$45 million. As many as 430,000 farm families, most of them smallholders, are to benefit directly from the first project supported by the Bank in the country that has been designed primarily to address improvement of operations and maintenance of irrigation systems. Institutional development and training, critical to improving the long-term operations-and-maintenance capability of the National Irrigation Administration and Irrigators' Association beneficiaries, together with minor rehabilitation works, will be supported. Total cost: $60.2 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$33.6 million. A fourth irrigation project seeks to pave the way for sustainable irrigation development in the Senegal valley through the disengagement from production-related activities of the government's main instrument for irrigation development in the valley in favor of concentration of its public-service functions, as well as through the modernization and expansion of three existing irrigated areas; improved maintenance, extension, and training; applied research; reforestation; and waterborne-disease control. Cofinancing is anticipated from the CCCE ($10.6 million), the KfW ($10 million), BADEA ($4.7 million), and France's Ministere de la Cooperation. Total cost: $65.6 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$23.5 million. Both smallholders' incomes and the country's foreign-exchange earnings will increase through a second smallholder rubber-rehabilitation project that seeks to stimulate improvements in the quantity and value of smallholder rubber. In addition, the government's institutional support will be rationalized and its efficiency improved. Total cost: $73.1 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$85 million. Financial and technical support will be provided the
government's economic-recovery program, and ongoing efforts to address key policy and institutional issues in the irrigated subsector will be addressed. In addition, irrigated crop production during the 1988-89 season will be sustained, and the resolution of long-term growth issues (such as production and organization of irrigation systems and integrated pest management) will be expedited. Cofinancing, in the amount of $34.2 million, is being sought. Total cost: $120 million.
SUDAN: IDA—$19.7 million. Major constraints to agricultural development in southern Kordorfan region will be addressed through the strengthening of selected agricultural institutions, increased availability of farm inputs, and improved crop-production technologies, water supplies, and roads. Cofinancing ($15.6 million) is expected from the AfDB. Total cost: $39.8 million.
TANZANIA: IDA—$30 million. A broad spectrum of agricultural enterprises throughout the country should benefit from a project aimed at increasing their exports and strengthening the capability of the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, Tanzania's only specialized agricultural bank, to become a viable agricultural-lending institution. Total cost: $40 million.
TOGO: IDA—$15.1 million. About 168,000 farmers stand to benefit from a project that aims at increasing cotton and food-crop productivity, improving the cost-effectiveness of cotton-sector operations, and introducing new financial/institutional arrangements that would provide flexibility and incentives to cotton-sector participants. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($11.5 million) and the FAC ($3.3 million). Total cost: $37.5 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$30 million. Rural credit will be made available through the National Bank of Tunisia (a major commercial bank) for agricultural investments, and support will be provided for institutional strengthening to promote the development of a financially sound rural-credit system. Total cost: $59 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$20 million. A forestry-development project has been designed to establish the basis for comprehensive conservation, development, and exploitation of the country's forestry resources, as well as for an intensification of wood production. Total cost: $50.2 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$24.9 million. Over a six-year period, the Kakira sugar estate will be rehabilitated, and historical production levels reestablished, thus saving the country
significant amounts of foreign exchange. Institution-building assistance is included, as is the adoption by the government of an import parity-based sugar-pricing policy and provision of a mechanism for liberalizing sugar marketing and pricing. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($9.4 million) and the AfDB ($8.7 million). Total cost: $61.5 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$10 million. Incomes and living standards of small farmers in the four districts of southwest Uganda are to be raised by increasing agricultural productivity through the provision of improved inputs, research and extension, and improving access to markets and inputs through road rehabilitation. Cofinancing ($12.3 million) is anticipated from IFAD. Total cost: $27.4 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$17.6 million. The government's efforts to initiate a program for provision of improved services, technical support, and infrastructural development for the agricultural development of those parts of the Northern Region not yet covered by other area-development and regional projects will be supported. Cofinancing ($3.4 million) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $39.4 million.
Development Finance Companies
BOLIVIA: IDA—$70 million. A financial-sector adjustment credit has been designed to support reforms aimed at increasing confidence in the banking system and resource mobilization, strengthening the financial condition of banks, and reducing the high cost of credit.
BURUNDI: IDA—$8 million. As many as 2,500 new jobs will be created as a result of a project offering credit, technical assistance, and training tailored to the needs of small enterprises. Technical assistance will be provided to the Burundi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, an entity that has been given the mandate for small-scale enterprise promotion. Total cost: $11.2 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$100 million. Support will be provided for an ongoing program of financial-sector reform that aims at strengthening financial institutions, encouraging more efficient financial intermediation, and developing the country's capital market.
GHANA: IDA—$100 million. A comprehensive and far-reaching government program for the development of a well functioning and broadly based financial
sector, through the implementation of in-depth policy and institutional reforms, will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from Japan (between $55 million and $70 million), the AfDB ($50 million), and Switzerland (SwF15 million).
MAURITIUS: IBRD—$10 million. A line of credit will be extended to the Bank of Mauritius for onlending to two participating financing institutions, which will relend the funds for investment projects in manufacturing, transport, tourism, and industrial-building construction.
MEXICO: IBRD—$500 million. A second adjustment operation will support the government's strategy of trade liberalization, which aims at achieving greater domestic efficiency and international competitiveness as the means to generate growth and employment.
MEXICO: IBRD—$300 million. A housing-finance project, which will help finance construction and individual mortgage loans by commercial banks for housing that is targeted to households with an income of up to 4.0 minimum wages, will act as a catalyst in helping the country to implement full cost-recovery, loan-reform measures and pursue agreed policy initiatives in the future. Total cost: $1,576 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$60 million. A line of credit will be provided to the Banco de Fomento Nacional to meet the long-term foreign-exchange needs of medium-sized investments in mixed and private-sector enterprises. Technical assistance, in particular, for a pilot industrial-restructuring program, is included. Total cost: $143.5 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$33 million. In support of the government's industrial-restructuring program, credit will be made available for fixed investments and working-capital in existing and new enterprises. Funding for a retraining program and technical assistance is included. Total cost: $40.8 million.
TOGO: IDA—$11.5 million. Funds will be provided in support of the government's policy of fostering a stronger private sector through the introduction of appropriate policy, regulatory, institutional, and financial measures. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $18.5 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$400 million. A second financial-sector loan will support the government's continuing financial-sector reform during 1988-89, focusing on improved financial policies, strengthening of the commercial banking system, and further development of money and capital markets.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$120 million. An export-industries project is designed to expedite growth of efficient exporting from Yugoslavia and to strengthen participating banks to enhance their effectiveness in resource allocation and in promoting financial discipline in the economy. Total cost: $302 million.
Education
ALGERIA: IBRD—$54 million. The Ministry of Education and Training will be assisted in upgrading its network of training institutions by the provision of training equipment, technical books, consumable materials, and civil works for fifty-seven vocational training centers, four instructor training institutes, and the Maintenance Training Institute. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $101.3 million.
BHUTAN: IDA—$4.2 million. The government's plan for primary education— designed to accommodate an enrollment growth rate of about 6 percent a year, raise educational quality and student achievement, and lower unit costs of primary schooling— will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from Switzerland ($5.9 million) and UNICEF ($1.5 million). Total cost: $13.6 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$31.5 million. An education-sector development project seeks to increase access to basic education and to improve the quality of primary and general secondary education while maintaining the share of the sector within the government's recurrent budget at a level of about 20 percent. Cofinancing is anticipated from UNICEF ($1 million) and the UNDP ($500,000). Total cost: $37.5 million.
CAPE VERDE: IDA—$4.2 million. So as to help improve the quality and efficiency of basic education, a policy and institutional framework will be put into place and necessary education inputs provided for the phased countrywide establishment of a six-year basic education system and for the improvement of education-sector management. Total cost: $5.3 million.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA— $18 million. The government's education strategy, within its structural-adjustment framework, will be supported by reviewing annually an action plan containing sector budgetary targets, the scholarship program and budget, and staffing and pedagogical targets. Cofinancing ($100,000) is anticipated from the UNDP. Total cost: $20.7 million.
CHINA: IDA—$50 million. The government will be assisted in addressing urgent needs for
an expanded and improved national lower secondary teacher-training system so as to meet the mandate for a nine-year universal basic-education program by the year 2000. Total cost: $104.8 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$70 million. A seventh education project seeks to improve the quality and volume of manpower training, continue or reinforce educational quality and equity, and strengthen institutional development in the education sector. Total cost: $95.2 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$4.3 million. The quality, efficiency, and relevance of, as well as access to, primary education will be improved, and the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education, Culture, and Sports to plan and manage the development of the education system will be strengthened. Total cost: $4.7 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$140.3 million. Selected activities in the government's higher-education program, which is based on a medium-term subsectoral strategy and action plan that gives priority to improvements in quality and efficiency, instead of relying on capital expansion, will be supported. Total cost: $257.3 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$113 million. Accounting practices will be improved through support for the first-phase implementation of a program to modernize government accounting practices and related efforts to strengthen the professional association of accountants, to develop accounting and auditing standards, and to strengthen the capital market. In addition, the government's program to raise the quality of accounting staff and to prepare for future expansion of accountancy training will be supported. Total cost: $164.5 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$8.3 million. The government will be assisted to prepare and evaluate options for a rehabilitation-and-development program aimed primarily at the first nine grades, mainly grades seven through nine. In addition, the student-loan program for higher education will be strengthened by improving its collection performance and overall administration. Total cost: $11.1 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$40 million. A seventh education project has been designed to improve the quality of teaching and learning, provide a better learning environment at reduced costs per student place, improve physical facilities, reinforce planning and management of education, and strengthen the linkage between education/vocational training and skilled manpower demand.
Cofinancing is anticipated from the EEC ($2.5 million). Total cost: $108.3 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$48.2 million. This first Bank-assisted project for universities in the country will support limited new investment to expand university enrollment capacity to meet priority manpower needs, strengthen university management, and improve the planning of university development and operations. Total cost: $81.4 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$80 million. Human-resource constraints on growth should be reduced, labor productivity increased, and the social costs of adjustment lessened through a project that seeks to strengthen employment services (in particular, expansion and increased effectiveness of retraining programs), assist enterprises (especially small and medium-sized ones) to provide in-service training, and upgrade training institutions. Total cost: $156 million.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—$15.9 million. A first IDA operation in the country's education sector seeks to raise the quality and efficiency of primary education, strengthen the training system in order to fill critical manpower gaps, and strengthen the capacity for education-sector policy analysis, with a focus on financial management and planning. Total cost: $17.9 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$23.3 million. This first Bank involvement in Nigeria's education sector in over a decade aims at upgrading the quality, efficiency, and throughput of selected federal technical training institutions and at strengthening the institutional capability for planning and coordinating technical education. Total cost: $27.9 million.
PORTUGAL: IBRD—$32 million. Portugal will be assisted to adapt its education and training system to the requirements of a modern economy through a project that focuses on rationalizing and strengthening university applied research to meet the needs of industry and agriculture, expanding polytechnic agricultural education, and introducing computers in primary and secondary schools. Total cost: $77.1 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$115.8 million. The Council for Higher Education will receive assistance in strengthening its capacity to plan and coordinate technician and technical/ vocational teacher-training programs; in alleviating scarcities of technicians in industry through the development of preservice technician-training programs; and in expanding and improving training programs at three faculties of technical education and one faculty of vocational education. In addition, the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism will be helped to develop and implement a national training plan for tourism occupations. Total cost: $165.8 million. ZAIRE: IDA—$11 million. Through a process of developing a strategy for the higher-education subsector, coupled with programs to improve administration and management, upgrade teaching and learning, and provide priority teaching materials, the subsector will be brought within the Bank-supported adjustment framework, which emphasizes improved management and expenditure rationalization. Total cost: $12.2 million.
Energy
ALGERIA: IBRD—$160 million. The financial position of Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz (SONELGAZ) will be restored and strengthened through a gradual shift to greater financial and managerial autonomy, and efforts will be made to improve its management, planning, and engineering capabilities. In addition, implementation of some major investments, which would contribute to the improvement of the country's power system, will be continued. Cofinancing ($86.5 million) is anticipated from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Total cost: $424 million.
BURMA: IDA—$63 million. This first IDA operation in the petroleum sector is designed to help alleviate the growing shortage of petroleum by supporting further development of the Payagon gas field. Cofinancing is anticipated from the UNDP ($2.5 million). Total cost: $100.1 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$165 million. The acute power shortage of a major load center in East China will be alleviated, national policies of developing large coal-fired thermal power-generating units to make more effective use of the country's abundant coal reserves will be supported, and efforts continued to introduce modern technology in plant design and construction management. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $289.7 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$300 million. The continuation of the government's reform program in the power sector, designed to improve the efficiency of power generation, transmission, and distribution, will be supported.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: IBRD—$105 million. A program of efficiency reforms for the Dominican Electricity Corporation and the rehabilitation and expansion of the electricity network of Santo Domingo will be supported. Total cost: $133.2 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$350 million. This project represents the first attempt by the Bank to address comprehensively—through an action plan—the several operational, managerial, and financial constraints to improving the operational performance of an important state electricity board (Uttar Pradesh) and to help lay the basis for establishing a strong, autonomous, and commercially oriented electric utility. Total cost: $754 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$295 million. The second phase of the offshore South Bassein gas field will be developed, associated gas-treatment facilities and a gas pipeline to bring associated gas to the Bombay area constructed, a gas condensate field appraised and developed, seismic surveys of two offshore gas fields conducted, proven gas reserves developed, and additional reserves for future production appraised. Suppliers' credits, in the amount of $170.1 million, are being sought. Total cost: $1,353.9 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$260 million. A second Karnataka power project will support state and national efforts to alleviate power shortages in the Southern Region by exploiting indigenous hydroelectric resources; in addition, transmission and distribution capacity will be augmented so as to reduce systems losses and improve the quality of service. As in the first project, approved in June 1987, institution-building assistance to the Karnataka Power Corporation and the Karnataka Electricity Board is included. Total cost: $570.1 million.
JAMAICA: IBRD—$18 million. A fourth power project seeks to improve the management and finances of Jamaica Public Service Company, Ltd. and further promote system efficiency and reliability. Transmission and distribution facilities will also be rehabilitated and expanded, and operations enhanced, thereby making better use of existing generating capacity. Total cost: $34.6 million.
MALAYSIA: IBRD—$56 million. Sarawak's natural gas resources will be utilized to meet its electricity demands, operational efficiency will be enhanced through system integration, and institutional capabilities of the Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation strengthened. Total cost: $113.4 million.
MOROCCO: IBRD—$90 million. The Office National de l'Electricite and five public-owned utilities will be assisted in rehabilitating, upgrading, and expanding power facilities at least cost, thus reducing losses and improving technical efficiency. Institutional-upgrading assistance is included. Total cost: $186.8 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$14.4 million. Consultancy services required for the detailed engineering of a major hydroelectric power project, which would meet Nepal's domestic market until 2005 and would provide bulk exports of power to India, will be financed. Cofinancing ($5.3 million) is expected from the KfW. Total cost: $21.9 million.
NIGER: IDA—$31.5 million. The government will be assisted in promoting fuelwood conservation, substitution of sources for household energy, and a more effective management of the natural forest cover; conserving electric power; providing electricity at least cost; and upgrading local abilities to administer petroleum exploration. Cofinancing is expected from the EIB ($16.3 million), DANIDA ($11.5 million), and the KfW ($10 million). Total cost: $86 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$150 million. The government will be assisted in mobilizing resources for cofinancing private-sector investments in energy development and in setting up an institutional framework to sustain private-sector investment and operation in the energy sector. Total cost: $1,893 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$100 million. Two loans—to the National Power Corporation ($59 million) and to the Philippine National Oil Company ($41 million)—will support the development of the least-cost source of incremental capacity for the Luzon grid (exploitation of an existing geothermal steam field and construction of a power station) and power transmission-system improvements, as well as help finance technical assistance for institution-building efforts. Cofinancing ($60 million) is expected from Italy. Total cost: $227 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$12.5 million. The generating, transmission, and distribution of Somalia National Electricity Corporation's (ENEE) Mogadishu facilities will be rehabilitated, replaced, and extended, and technical assistance provided the National Woodstove Project so as to help promote cooking-efficiency improvements. Advisory services to the ENEE and technical assistance to the Ministry of National Planning is included. Cofinancing is anticipated from Italy ($50 million), the EIB ($14.7 million), and the AfDB ($9.5 million). Total cost: $94 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$40.5 million. A five-year time-slice of the Ceylon Electricity Board's expenditures to rehabilitate, develop, and expand distribution systems to be taken over from selected licensees will be financed. In addition, 230 kilometers of transmission lines
will be constructed, about 150 kilometers of transmission lines will be reconductored, related substations constructed and augmented, and technical assistance provided to increase management capacity. Cofinancing, in the amount of $31 million, is being sought. Total cost: $113 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$110 million. The transmission system of the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand will be expanded and strengthened, and existing load-dispatch centers will be upgraded into a state-of-the-art countrywide control system. In addition, improvements will be made in load-forecasting methods and the tariff structure. Cofinancing ($4.5 million) through export credits is anticipated. Total cost: $213.1 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$44 million. A second power project seeks to improve the efficiency and reliability through the rehabilitation and upgrading of power facilities. In addition, institutional development will be enhanced by consolidating reorganization of the sector. Staff training is included. Cofinancing is expected from the CDC ($21.7 million), the AfDB ($20.8 million), the Netherlands ($7.5 million), and Norway ($5 million). Total cost: $224.1 million.
Industry
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$400 million. Reforms to the banking sector, designed to achieve the following objectives—to increase deposit mobilization and confidence in the banking system, improve the allocation of credit, and reduce the cost of credit—will be supported. Technical assistance, which includes support for various aspects of banking supervision and control, is included.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$11.4 million. Continuing the efforts initiated under an earlier credit, which supported energy audits and project preparation, this project will help implement identified energy-conservation measures in economically and financially viable industrial and power plants. Cofinancing ($600,000) is expected from the ODA. Total cost: $15 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$127 million. A pharmaceutical project has been designed to expand pharmaceutical production and improve its quality, modify supply patterns of drugs to match demand, and increase the potential for exports. Total cost: $213 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$62.7 million. Proper strategies for developing an efficient phosphate industry, including an optimal investment program to meet future demand
for phosphate fertilizers, will be established. In addition, financial and technical assistance for implementing the first major investment of the program will be provided, and the capacity of the Ministry of Chemical Industry in subsector planning will be strengthened. Total cost: $221.8 million. GHANA: IDA—$40 million. A mining-sector rehabilitation project aims to rehabilitate the State Gold Mining Corporation's mines with as much private participation as possible, develop Ghana's gold-mining potential by attracting private investors, strengthen government agencies dealing with the mining sector, and increase benefits from small-scale gold-mining operations. Total cost: $120 million.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$200 million. An industrial-sector adjustment loan will support the government's efforts to increase the efficiency and international competitiveness of the industrial sector and expand exports to convertible-currency markets.
HUNGARY: IBRD—$50 million. The
technological underpinning of the country's industrial-policy reform program will be addressed through a project that is composed of direct investments (in technology-development infrastructure, introduction of new technologies, and the computer-software industry); improved subproject appraisal and design methods; support for a review of technology-development policy and programs; and through a contribution to the dialogue between the Bank and the government on industrial restructuring. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $118.1 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$360 million. Technical and financial support will be provided to India's two largest development finance institutions to help them meet their requirements for long-term resources, strengthen their capacity to appraise projects in a less-regulated environment, and cope with the difficult portfolio-management problems stemming from the adjustment process. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the Steel Authority of India Limited to help it prepare for the physical restructuring of its operations. Total cost: $868 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$21 million. Assistance will be provided the government in establishing the institutional framework and policies to improve the planning, promotion, coordination, implementation, and monitoring of energy-conservation activities. In addition, a demonstration energy-efficiency scheme will be implemented at
PUSRI, the country's largest nitrogenous fertilizer producer. Total cost: $36.1 million.
JORDAN: IBRD—$31 million. Finance will be provided to the Jordan Phosphate Mines Company Ltd. to support the initial development phase of a mine at Shidiya, thus enabling the country to increase exports of its major foreign-exchange earning commodity. Total cost: $89 million.
KENYA: IDA—$102 million; African Facility—$10 million. Support will be provided to the first phase (1988-90) of the government's medium-term adjustment program for the industrial sector, which is designed to stimulate investment, promote export production, and improve sector efficiency, thus making the sector more outward-oriented and competitive.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$50 million. A third technology-development project seeks to strengthen further the Korea Technology Development Corporation by helping it expand gradually into projects with greater risk and adjust to a changing financial market, industrial environment, and a private (rather than mixed) enterprise status. Total cost: $633.3 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$8.5 million. An engineering credit will help the country's principal enterprise for mineral development and mining operations, OMNIS, to carry out its share of phase three of preparation of an ilmenite project—one central to Madagascar's medium-term development strategy that aims to diversify exports and encourage private-sector participation. QIT-Fer et Titane Inc., OMNIS's Canadian private partner, is making an equity contribution of $7.4 million. Total cost: $16.2 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$400 million. By financing input materials and steel-product imports during the adjustment period, the government will be assisted in implementing comprehensive and far-reaching policy reforms for both the public and private steel sectors and in carrying out needed restructuring actions. Total cost: $1,050 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$265 million. The first steps in the implementation of the government's and Fertilizantes Mexicanos' (FERTIMEX) five-year program to put the fertilizer subsector on a sound competitive basis and eliminate government subsidies will be supported through a series of policy reforms and the implementation of rationalization investments. Technical assistance to assist in FERTIMEX's reorganization is included. Total cost: $346.4 million.
PAKISTAN: IBRD—$96 million. The rational development of the cement subsector will be supported through the rehabilitation of SCCP (State Cement Corporation of Pakistan) plants, improvements to SCCP's management and operations, increases in its commercial orientation, and the establishment of a Cement Research Institute. Total cost: $164.4 million.
Nonproject
BOLIVIA: IDA—$27 million. The country's Emergency Social Fund, aimed at providing emergency relief and carrying out an employment-generating program as a bridge until the recovery gains momentum, will be supported during its second and third years of operation through the financing of social-assistance activities and small-scale employment-generating projects in infrastructure, construction, and production. Several other donors and lenders have separately committed $22.1 million to the program; further contributions are being sought. Total cost: $58.6 million.
BURUNDI: IDA—$90 million. A second structural-adjustment credit will support the next phase of the goverment's structural-adjustment program, designed to accelerate economic growth and increase per capita income and consumption levels through the reorientation of the economy toward a path more reliant on market forces and a greater outward orientation. Special joint financing is anticipated from Japan ($18.1 million), the Federal Republic of Germany ($6 million), and Saudi Arabia ($2.9 million).
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: IDA— $40 million. The second phase of the government's adjustment program—its objective is to achieve real GDP growth of 4 percent by 1991 while simultaneously improving the major macroeconomic balances—will be supported. Cofinancing ($25 million) is expected from the ADF.
CHILE: IBRD—$250 million. A third structural-adjustment loan will help support the government's medium-term adjustment program, which seeks to maintain and strengthen incentives for noncopper exports, increase public savings and the efficiency of public expenditures, and improve the mobilization and allocation of long-term savings.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$70 million. A medium-term structural-adjustment program, aimed at restoring a better balance between the public and private sectors so as to overcome severe fiscal and economic imbalances and to foster
growth in the nonoil sectors, will be supported.
GABON: IBRD—$50 million. After a fourteen-year hiatus in IBRD lending, funds will be provided in support of the government's structural-adjustment program, designed to overcome the economic and financial crisis brought about by the 1986 collapse of petroleum prices.
GHANA: African Facility—$15 million. Supplemental financing will be provided to the structural-adjustment credit, approved in April 1987, which was originally financed through credits from IDA ($34 million) and the African Facility ($81 million), as well as through special joint financing ($35.5 million).
GUINEA: IDA—$65 million. A second structural-adjustment credit will support the second phase of the government's economic-and financial-reform program, whose objective is to achieve an annual average GDP growth rate of about 4 percent through 1993 while improving the internal and external payments equilibrium. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($12 million) and Japan ($11.2 million).
INDONESIA: IBRD—$300 million. A second trade-policy adjustment loan will support the substantial reforms, especially in the area of trade policy, undertaken by the government in 1987; and assist the government in bringing about an early recovery in economic activity consistent with external and domestic financial stability.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$125 million. The next phase of the country's adjustment program, designed to promote an early transition to per capita growth with increased social equity through measures to accelerate the supply response to the new market-oriented incentive structure, will be supported. Cofinancing is anticipated from the ADF ($40 million) and Switzerland ($8 million). Further cofinaning is being sought.
MALAWI: IDA—$70 million. The continuation of the government's reform program of industrial and external-trade policies, designed to improve the policy environment for manufacturing, to increase efficiency of resource use, and spur employment and exports, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the OECF ($30 million), USAID ($25 million), the ADF ($19.5 million), and the EEC ($16 million).
MALI: IDA—$40 million. The government's public enterprise-sector adjustment program, whose objectives are to improve the performance of the sector and to reduce its burden on public finances, will be supported.
MOZAMBIQUE: IDA—$70 million; African Facility—$18.6 million. A second rehabilitation credit provides continued support to the government's economic-rehabilitation program, which is designed to reverse the declining trend of the country's economy. Special joint financing ($11.4 million) from Switzerland will also be provided.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$200 million. This loan in support of the ongoing reform program for government corporations, which establishes a policy and institutional framework to reduce, limit, and rationalize government activities using the corporate form, constitutes the foundation stage for phased structural adjustment of the public corporate sector.
TANZANIA: IDA—$30 million ; African Facility—$26 million. Supplementary finance will be provided for the Multisector Rehabilitation Credit, approved in November 1986. Special joint financing ($4 million) is expected from Saudi Arabia.
TOGO: IDA—$45 million. The third phase of the government's structural-adjustment program, designed to achieve a sustained level of growth of close to 5 percent a year by the early 1990s, will be supported. Cofinancing is expected from the ADF ($17.3 million), and, through special joint financing, Japan ($20.8 million).
TUNISIA: IBRD—$150 million. A first structural-adjustment loan will support the medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program of the government, whose objective is to implement policy changes that would allow the country to achieve sustained growth in the framework of an internally and externally balanced economy that would provide the basis of employment creation.
UGANDA: IDA—$65 million; African Facility—$24 million. Policies and measures under the government's economic-recovery program, designed to restore economic stability, revitalize the recovery process, and set the stage for sustained growth, will be supported. Special joint financing ($16 million) is expected from the United Kingdom.
Population, Health, and Nutrition
BRAZIL: IBRD—$109 million. Funds will be provided to help arrest the increasing prevalence of three major endemic diseases in order to reduce human infection in the at-risk population in the northeast. In addition, the government will be helped in developing an AIDS program, including AIDS testing in blood banks and AIDS
education through the mass media. Total cost: $218 million. BURUNDI: IDA—$14 million. A population and health project seeks to strengthen nationwide maternal and child-health services, increase contraceptive prevalence, assist in controlling the spread of AIDS, strengthen the institutional capability of the Ministry of Health, improve the financing and efficiency of health services, and improve the demographic data base for population-policy development and socioeconomic planning. Cofinancing ($1.8 million) is anticipated from UNICEF. Total cost: $18.7 million.
ETHIOPIA: IDA—$33 million. A family-health project seeks to increase the quality, coverage, and cost-effectiveness of maternal and child-health services; increase the availability and use of family-planning services; and strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health. Cofinancing ($500,000) is anticipated from UNICEF. Total cost: $43.9 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$19.7 million. Planning and management capabilities within the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs will be developed, and policy and administrative reforms to improve the quality and efficiency of basic health services, including family planning, will be introduced. In addition, steps will be taken to develop cost-recovery mechanisms. Total cost: $22.5 million.
INDIA: IDA—$57 million. A fifth population project will support the government's recent broadening of its family-welfare strategy to improve coverage and accessibility of services among urban slum populations through service-delivery expansion, improvements in the quality of family-welfare staff, improvements in the management of the family-welfare program, and an increase in program participation by private voluntary organizations and private medical practitioners. Total cost: $78.2 million.
KENYA: IDA—$12.2 million. A third population project aims at strengthening the ability of the National Council for Population and Development to program, finance, coordinate, and monitor population-program activities; creating further demand for, and acceptance of, family-planning services through the implementation of a strategically planned and coordinated IEC— information, education, and communication—program; and increasing the availability, accessibility, and quality of family-planning services provided by the government and nongovernmental organizations. Cofinancing is anticipated
from the ODA ($8.4 million) and NORAD ($5 million). Total cost: $28.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$17.5 million. A health and family-planning project seeks to strengthen management of the governmental health system at central and regional levels, increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the health-logistics system, and promote lower fertility and improved maternal-child health through increased and more effective use of modern and traditional child-spacing methods. Total cost: $21.4 million.
UGANDA: IDA—$42.5 million. A first health project seeks to reestablish the provision of health services by rehabilitating a number of strategically located hospitals and health centers, strengthening preventive health programs, and ensuring the long-term sustainability and viability of the health-care delivery system. Cofinancing is expected from Austria ($10 million) and SIDA ($6.5 million). Total cost: $65.5 million.
Small-scale Enterprises
INDONESIA: IBRD—$165 million. Funds for a second export-development project will be onlent by nine participating financial institutions to finance projects that will export at least 40 percent of production resulting from the investments. Total cost: $440 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$20 million. A second small and medium industries project complements previous and ongoing industrial-sector operations by providing credit through the banking system to small and medium-scale private manufacturers and contributing to policy reform and institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff administration, export promotion, and financial-sector operations. Cofinancing ($15 million) is anticipated from the AsDB. Total cost: $55 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$28 million. Eligible small and medium-sized investment projects will be financed through a credit line to three commercial banks and two development banks, thus fostering the development of a new class of industrial entrepreneurs and creating employment at a relatively low cost. Cofinancing ($1.2 million) is expected from the UNDP. Total cost: $70 million.
TURKEY: IBRD—$300 million. By providing funds to Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi and Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi to finance private export-oriented investments and to provide credit to participating commercial banks, the country's drive to expand industrial exports and to improve the policy and institutional framework relevant
to export finance will be supported. Total cost: $598.5 million.
Technical Assistance
CHAD: IDA—$12.8 million. The government's capacity to define and implement its development program, to carry out effective economic and financial management, to monitor economic performance, and to improve revenue collection will be enhanced. Cofinancing ($3 million) is expected from Switzerland. Total cost: $16 million.
CONGO, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE: IBRD—$15.2 million. The government will be helped to acquire the necessary technical and administrative capacity to implement public-enterprise reforms and to improve public-enterprise management—an essential element in carrying out a structural-adjustment program. Cofinancing is anticipated by the CCCE ($1.2 million). Total cost: $20.8 million.
GHANA: IDA—$10.5 million. The assistance needed to formulate and implement sectorwide state-owned enterprise reforms and to initiate managerial and operational improvements in key public enterprises will be provided. Total cost: $11.6 million.
GUINEA-BISSAU: IDA—$9.7 million. A second technical-assistance project will continue the provision of technical and managerial expertise to key economic agencies of the government to improve their macroeconomic capabilities to support the country's structural-adjustment process. Total cost: $10.2 million.
MALI: IDA—$9.5 million. Institutional strengthening needed by the government to carry out its public-enterprise sector-adjustment program as envisaged will be provided. Total cost: $9.9 million.
MAURITANIA: IDA—$10 million. The government will be provided with the resources and skills it needs to implement its administrative-reform program, in particular, in making managerial improvements within the presidency, in strengthening economic and financial management, initiating civil-service reform, and in establishing local municipalities. Cofinancing ($400,000) is anticipated from the FAC. Total cost: $11.4 million.
NIGER: IDA—$5.5 million. The government will be assisted in acquiring the necessary technical and administrative capacity to formulate and implement the reform measures incorporated in its Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program for 1987-90. Total cost: $5.7 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$17 million. The government will be assisted in carrying out administrative reforms to strengthen its economic and financial-management capacity in the context of a new policy orientation that gives special attention to three strategic public-management functions—planning, financial management, and human-resource management. Cofinancing ($2 million) is expected from CIDA. Total cost: $24.7 million.
SOMALIA: IDA—$5.5 million. Through the provision of technical assistance and training, the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Juba Valley Development to complete the preparation of the Baardhere multipurpose dam project and to determine its feasibility and financing will be strengthened. Total cost: $5.8 million.
Telecommunications
JORDAN: IBRD—$36 million. This first telecommunications project in the country is designed to assist the government improve the policy and institutional framework for the efficient long-term development of the telecommunications sector; implement a realistic investment program consistent with resource availabilities that would improve services while expanding coverage, especially to isolated rural areas; mobilize competitive financing resources; and devise and carry out a program for the commercialization of the sector and the operations of the Jordan Telecommunications Corporation. Total cost: $338.1 million.
Transportation
ALGERIA: IBRD—$143 million. By financing about 60 percent of the government's three-year program for track rehabilitation and renewal, through support for a program of modernization of signaling and telecommunications equipment, and provision of equipment to establish a capacity for mechanized track maintenance, the government's objectives of rationalizing its railway-investment program and of giving adequate priority to the rehabilitation of the railway network will be supported. Technical assistance and training are included. Cofinancing ($47 million) is to be provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Total cost: $431 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$62.3 million. Rural development will be supported through developing rural infrastructure in eight districts in northwest Bangladesh; strengthening the capacity of districts and subdistricts to finance, execute, and maintain
roads and markets; repairing flood-damaged roads; and reducing potential damage caused by floods in the future. Cofinancing is being extended by the KfW ($14.2 million) and the SDC ($8.7 million). Total cost: $98.3 million. BANGLADESH: IDA—$25 million. Within five subsectors—flood control, irrigation, and drainage; main roads; local roads; primary education; and inland water transport— priority elements of infrastructure and equipment damaged in the 1987 floods will be rehabilitated or replaced. Total cost: $30.3 million.
BELIZE: IBRD—$5.6 million. A second road-maintenance and rehabilitation project is designed to improve further the Ministry of Works and Housing's management and technical procedures to provide efficient and safe levels of service to highway users. Total cost: $15.6 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$20 million. Technical assistance will be provided to make the country's port system (which includes thirty-five major seaports, river ports, and lake ports) more effective and, in particular, to contribute to more efficient resource use and to the improved utilization of port capacity. Total cost: $44 million.
CHAD: IDA—$47 million. Rehabilitation will be completed of the 2,000 kilometers of high-priority roads identified by the government and donor community as essential for the resumption of normal economic activity. Total cost: $49.5 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$200 million. A fourth railway project will support the government's objectives of increasing railway capacity and improving its operations and efficiency. Institution-building assistance to the Ministry of Railways is included. Total cost: $600 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$75 million; IDA—$50 million. Road capacity in the important road corridor between Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, and Chongqing, the major industrial center and river port in the province, will be expanded, and two rural roads, both located in the poorer areas of the province, will be improved. Institutional strengthening to improve road planning, paved-road maintenance management, and road safety, together with technical assistance, is included. Total cost: $399.8 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$71 million; IDA—$25 million. Through a program of expansion, technology transfer, studies designed to secure adequate coordination of transportation and storage facilities, and training, Dalian port's administration will be
improved and its capacity to handle cargo flows enlarged. Total cost: $230.6 million. CHINA: IBRD—$63 million; IDA—$25 million. The government will be assisted in its efforts to relieve congestion and increase the handling capacity in its ports through the provision of infrastructure at Huangpu port in southeastern China. Technical assistance and training are included. Total cost: $239 million.
CHINA: IBRD—$50 million. Road capacity in the heavily congested corridor between Shaanxi province's capital of Xi'an and the important coal mining district and industrial city of Tongchuan is to be expanded by the construction of a sixty-seven-kilometer-long highway, and the rural-road network in southern Shaanxi province will be expanded, improved, and repaired. In addition, institutional strengthening to improve road planning, paved-road maintenance management, and road safety, together with technical assistance, will be provided. Total cost: $117.8 million.
COTE DTVOIRE: IBRD—$45.5 million. Supplementary finance will be provided for the Second Highway Sector Project, approved in June 1985 in the amount of $110 million.
CYPRUS: IBRD—$35 million. The government will be supported in its resolution to develop a self-sustaining system of transport-sector management, thus contributing to the improvement of transport efficiency. In addition, a number of congestion-alleviating and rehabilitation measures will be financed. Total cost: $121 million.
FIJI: IBRD—$23.4 million. The government's road-sector strategy, which focuses on the upgrading and rehabilitation of priority road segments and selective construction of rural roads in areas with greatest developmental potential, will be supported. Total cost: $38 million.
GHANA: IDA—$60 million. A nationwide project to rehabilitate the country's transport sector will include infrastructure rehabilitation (mainly roads and railways), support for sector institutions and reforms, and pilot programs in support of small-scale private road transport and low-cost rural transport. Cofinancing, in the amount of $100.5 million, is expected from Italy and CIDA, and, tentatively, the OECF. Total cost: $222.4 million.
GUINEA: IDA—$55 million. A fourth highway project, which will finance the first phase of a long-term development program to rehabilitate and improve the national and
regional road networks, seeks to lay the basis for efficient maintenance by contract rather than force account and build on the institutional improvements pursued under an earlier transport-sector project. Cofinancing is expected from the CCCE ($35.3 million), the AfDB ($34.8 million), USAID ($23 million), and Italy ($17.4 million). Total cost: $200 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$390 million. A third railway-modernization project includes renewal and upgrading of about 4,000 track kilometers on heavy-density freight routes, provision of modern track-renewal and maintenance equipment, training, and technical assistance. Total cost: $1,206 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$190 million. Management of the country's district road programs will be improved, financial support extended to them, existing labor-based construction and maintenance techniques for such roads improved, and new appropriate techniques for this purpose introduced. Total cost: $333 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$28 million. The Indonesian State Railway (PJKA) will be assisted in its efforts to bring about measurable and significant improvements in its traffic operations, as well as in mechanical and track maintenance. Groundwork will also be laid for a major reorientation of commercial, operational, and maintenance practices to enable PJKA to become financially viable within eight years. Total cost: $31 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$116 million. The efficiency of transport in the Kyonggi region (encircling both Seoul and Inchon) will be increased through the construction of two high-capacity toll expressways. Consultant services and the initiation of a traffic-management study in four secondary cities, where traffic patterns will be affected by the new expressways, are included. Total cost: $448.2 million.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: IDA—$14.1 million. Through spot improvements on a 270-kilometer stretch of route 13 in central and southern Laos, procurement of equipment and construction materials, and provision of consultant services, the restoration of an economically critical road section and strengthening of the government's capacity to plan and execute road maintenance on a continuing basis will be supported. Total cost: $15.1 million.
MADAGASCAR: IDA—$40 million. Critical elements in the four-year program (1988-91) for road maintenance and rehabilitation and
institution building, designed to meet the high-priority transport needs of the country, will be financed. Cofinancing is expected from the EDF ($32.6 million), the AfDB ($25 million), the SDC ($15.6 million), and NORAD ($2.7 million). Total cost: $144.1 million.
MALAWI: IDA—$13.4 million. Improvements to transport facilities along the northern transport corridor from Malawi to Tanzania will be made, thus assisting the former country to develop a shorter and more cost-effective route to the sea as compared with the alternative southern route to South Africa. Cofinancing is expected from the EDF ($20 million), the ODA ($19.3 million), the KfW ($18.9 million), USAID ($18 million), and the Netherlands ($17.3 million). Total cost: $109.8 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$135 million. The government and the Secretariat of Communications and Transport will be assisted in improving road-maintenance operations for the federal network so that the backlog of deferred periodic maintenance can be eliminated and, in the future, timely maintenance requirements can be provided. Total cost: $281.5 million.
MEXICO: IBRD—$50 million. Port efficiency will be heightened through rehabilitation and improvement of port operations, infrastructure, and equipment; the management and maintenance of port equipment will be improved; the efficiency of dredging operations increased; port investment planning and financial management strengthened; and port subsidies progressively reduced. Total cost: $90.2 million.
NEPAL: IDA—$15.5 million. Immediate assistance will be provided to enable the government to carry out a program to rehabilitate, rebuild, or replace priority elements of flood-damaged roads and ancillary structures in the Eastern and Central Development regions and the Kathmandu valley. Cofinancing ($500,000) is anticipated from the UNDP. Total cost: $18.5 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$250 million. The Federal Highway Department will be supported in its efforts to define and execute an appropriate and sustainable program of rehabilitation, upgrading, and maintenance; to improve operational efficiency and cost effectiveness; and improve road safety. Total cost: $955.4 million.
RWANDA: African Facility—$10 million. Supplementary finance will be provided for the Sixth Highway Project, approved in
December 1985. Special joint financing is expected from the Federal Republic of Germany ($5.5 million) and Saudi Arabia ($2.9 million).
SUDAN: IDA—$35 million. The objectives of this railways emergency-recovery program are to arrest further deterioration in the operations of the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC), improve its use of existing capacity, increase SRC's share of the Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor traffic, assist in reducing operating costs and staff levels, and reestablish the SRC as a financially sound and economically efficient tool for the country's economic development. Cofinancing is expected from the ODA ($20.5 million), the AfDB ($14.2 million), the KfW ($11 million), the EEC ($9.8 million), and the Netherlands ($2.8 million). Total cost: $99.4 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$50 million. A highway-sector loan will finance components of the Department of Highway's 1987-91 road-development plan and periodic-maintenance program, whose major components, for which most of the loan proceeds will be used, are rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and paving programs. Total cost: $998.6 million.
THAILAND: IBRD—$13 million. Market segments that the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) can effectively and profitably serve will be identified, and SRT's ability to compete with other transport modes for traffic will be strengthened. Total cost: $14.8 million.
TOGO: IDA—$40 million. The government will be assisted in rehabilitating and maintaining essential transport infrastructure and in improving sectoral efficiency, including the strengthening of existing institutions, as well as the adoption of sound policy and regulatory measures. Cofinancing is expected from the EDF ($26.6 million), the AfDB ($17 million), the KfW ($8 million), the SFD ($5.5 million), the UNCDF/UNDP ($2.6 million), the BOAD ($2.3 million), and the CCCE and the FAC ($1.4 million each). Further cofinancing of $3.1 million is being sought. Total cost: $130.3 million.
TUNISIA: IBRD—$63 million. The government's policy of rationalizing highway investments and of seeking a more efficient use of resources, mainly through improved planning and management, will be supported through this highways maintenance-and-rehabilitation project. Total cost: $232.3 million.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC: IDA—$18 million. The Sana'a-Hodeidah road will be rehabilitated and strengthened, and flood-
damaged sections and bridges of the Sana'a-Marib, Taiz-Al Mafraq, and Hodeidah-Harad roads will be reconstructed. Technical assistance and the provision of road-maintenance equipment are included. Cofinancing will be provided by the AFESD ($24 million) and the OPEC Fund for International Development ($4.4 million). Total cost: $57 million.
YUGOSLAVIA: IBRD—$68 million. A second highway-sector project is aimed primarily at assisting the road organizations of Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Vojvodina in implementing their highway-development programs and in creating and developing a pilot maintenance-management system. Total cost: $585 million.
ZIMBABWE: IBRD—$32.7 million. A second highway project seeks to strengthen the road network in commercial farming areas, as well as in communal lands, by reducing the backlog in periodic maintenance of primary, secondary, and feeder roads. Total cost: $86.4 million.
Urban Development
ARGENTINA: IBRD—$120 million. The provision of subloans to five provinces for financing half of eligible costs of physical investments, community facilities, and vehicles and equipment will contribute to more effective public-sector management at the provincial and municipal levels through improved financing mechanisms for municipal investments. Technical assistance is included. Total cost: $240 million.
BANGLADESH: IDA—$47.6 million. An efficient approach to citywide environmental improvements will be supported, the supply of affordable urban land and infrastructure will be increased, and municipal-management practices and resource mobilization in the country's two largest cites—Dhaka and Chittagong—will be improved. Cofinancing ($4.6 million) is anticipated from the UNDP. Total cost: $65.6 million.
BOLIVIA: IDA—$15 million. Through improvements in municipal management, urban transport, and urban infrastructure, the municipality of La Paz's institutional capacity to discharge service, administrative, and fiscal functions, while redressing some critical shortcomings in the city's infrastructure, will be strengthened. Cofinancing is expected from the GTZ ($1.4 million), France ($600,000), the Netherlands ($600,000), and Spain ($400,000). Total cost: $21.3 million.
BRAZIL: IBRD—$175 million. State and municipal authorities in the metropolitan
region of Rio de Janeiro will be assisted in urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation made necessary by recent floods and landslides. In addition, essential physical works, designed to minimize or prevent future flood damage, will be implemented, and state and municipal authorities will be helped in developing a program and the institutional capacity to cope better with future emergencies. Total cost: $393.6 million.
ECUADOR: IBRD—$60 million. By financing a share of the 1988-93 investment program of the Ecuadorian Housing Bank (BEV), some 12,500 serviced lots will be developed, 15,000 home-improvement loans will be issued, and technical assistance provided to help improve operations of both the BEV and the National Housing Board (JNV). Total cost: $312 million.
EL SALVADOR: IBRD—$65 million. In the wake of the October 1986 earthquake, the San Salvador metropolitan area will be rehabilitated and reconstructed through the provision of low-cost housing, public office and school buildings, and essential public services; support will be given to the expansion of the capital city to the less-vulnerable north; the microenterprise sector will be rehabilitated; and the government's ability to plan and manage reconstruction efforts and to deal with future emergencies strengthened. Cofinancing, in the amount of $13.5 million, is to be arranged. Total cost: $102.4 million.
GHANA: IDA—$10.6 million. As many as 10,000 productive jobs will be created over a two-year period as a result of this project, which supports a special program of public works that will help alleviate urban poverty and cushion the effect of impending layoffs in the public sector. Cofinancing ($4.9 million) is being sought. Total cost: $16.8 million.
GUATEMALA: IBRD—$29 million. Through action programs, local resource mobilization will be strengthened, organizational arrangements streamlined, modern city-planning and management systems installed, and maintenance operations in the municipality of Guatemala improved. In addition, social issues in the capital city will be addressed through provision or rehabilitation of basic urban infrastructure and community services to low-income and squatter groups, in part, through community action. Total cost: $44.8 million.
INDIA: IDA—$300.2 million. The ten largest cities in Tamil Nadu state will be assisted through a project that has three main objectives: strengthening the functioning of
institutions involved with the programming and delivery of urban services and the implementation of urban investments; improving the supply of legal and environmentally acceptable serviced land for the benefit of about 880,000 people; and improving the efficiency of the urban-transport system. Total cost: $443.7 million.
INDIA: IBRD—$250 million. A loan to the Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC), the country's only significant private housing-finance company, will support a maximum 30 percent of the HDFC's program over three-and-a-half years (about 70,000 mortgages), thus helping to stabilize HDFC's program during a period of change and increased competition in the capital markets and increase its ability to expand service to new geographical areas and to low-income groups. Conditions relating to the development of a supportive regulatory environment for housing finance, as well as technical support for HDFC and other new companies, are also included. Total cost: $840.8 million.
INDONESIA: IBRD—$150 million. Integrated infrastructure-development planning and programming in the Jabotabek region and urban-transport planning in the Jakarta Special Capital Province, in particular, will be supported. In addition, traffic management in the region will be improved, and the government's policies, operations, and regulations for public transport enhanced. Institution-building assistance is included. Total cost: $223.9 million.
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF: IBRD—$30 million. The Taegu city government will be assisted in improving its transportation system through the introduction and application of transportation-system management (TSM) techniques and the construction of a major urban expressway and associated links. Institutional assistance is included. Total cost: $145.7 million.
LESOTHO: IDA—$20.4 million. Through the upgrading of about 3,000 plots at Maseru South, support for the restructuring of the institutions responsible for the supply of housing into a single new agency, an increase in the availability of long-term finance to a broad range of groups for plot purchase and housing, improvement in the functioning of land markets, establishment of the Maseru Municipal Council (the country's first local urban authority), and promotion of sound cost-recovery policies and practices, the urban sector's shift towards greater financial self-sufficiency and accountability will gather momentum. Total cost: $42.2 million.
NIGERIA: IBRD—$69.5 million. The establishment of an urban infrastructure-wholesaling mechanism, the Infrastructure Development Fund, will be initiated. After its establishment, the fund will enable merchant banks to identify, appraise, supervise, and cofinance urban-infrastructure projects at the state level. Total cost: $96.8 million.
PAKISTAN: IDA—$90 million. The living standards, environmental quality, and productivity of 250,000 people living in the walled-city area and elsewhere in the city of Lahore will be improved through a project that also provides for investments in three other cities in the state of Punjab. Technical assistance and training to improve the technical, financial, and management performance of key urban institutions in Lahore, as well as to strengthen the state government, are included. Cofinancing ($19.9 million) is anticipated from the ODA. Total cost: $145.2 million.
PHILIPPINES: IBRD—$160 million. A housing-sector project will provide support for immediate imports of construction material to initiate subdivision development, finance a time-slice of the mortgage-investment program of the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation, and provide associated technical assistance, training, equipment, and studies. Total cost: $325 million.
SENEGAL: IDA—$46 million. A municipal and housing-development project seeks to strengthen local governments (particularly in metropolitan Dakar) to improve policy making, service delivery, urban investment, and resource mobilization, as well as to expand the economic impact and efficiency of the housing sector. Cofinancing ($2.7 million) is anticipated from CIDA. Total cost: $78.3 million.
SRI LANKA: IDA—$78 million. Funds will be provided to reconstruct or rehabilitate affected infrastructure, revive economic activities, and restore essential services so as to facilitate the process of returning the country to normal. Total cost: $111.4 million.
Water Supply and Sewerage
BRAZIL: IBRD—$80 million. The first stage of a long-term program to extend water, wastewater, and solid-waste services to poor areas of urban centers and to expand water and sewerage systems in cities with municipally operated water utilities will be supported. Total cost: $190.7 million.
COLOMBIA: IBRD—$150 million. Assistance to the government in implementing its water-
supply and sewerage-sector reform program includes provision of water-supply services to about 1.9 million people and sewerage services to about 1.3 million people, most of them poor; the introduction of lending and financial policies adopted under the reform program; the strengthening of sector institutions; promotion of more cost-effective and appropriate investment projects; and the establishment of a permanent training capacity for sector personnel. Total cost: $435 million. TURKEY: IBRD—$218 million. The Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage General Directorate will obtain sewerage and sewage-treatment facilities to continue the pollution-abatement program started under an earlier loan (1982 for $88.1 million), as well as pipe, system-control, and maintenance equipment to reduce water shortages and operate its
systems more efficiently. Total cost: $569.9 million.
URUGUAY: IBRD—$22.3 million. The Administration de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado will be assisted in its modernization and restructuring so that it might reduce operating costs and increase productivity, thus enabling it to operate without subsidies and provide services to low-income groups at prices they can afford. Total cost: $33.2 million.
ZAIRE: IDA—$45 million. A third water-supply project, in addition to addressing basic sector economic and financial issues, will develop new water-supply systems in eighteen semirural centers, reinforce the water-supply system in the town of Likasi, and provide technical assistance and consulting services to the state-owned water utility. Total cost: $51.6 million.
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1988 and June 30, 1987
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Translation of Currencies
The IBRD's principal financial statements are expressed in terms of US dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing the IBRD's financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
The IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. The IBRD's resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in the various currencies of its members and Switzerland and are held, invested, or lent in those same currencies. The IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. Borrowed funds are sometimes converted into other currencies, and, at the same time, forward exchange contracts are entered into in order to recover the currency converted. With respect to its other resources, the IBRD does not convert one currency into another except for small amounts required to meet certain obligations and operational needs of the IBRD.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Income and expenses are generally translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each month. Translation adjustments, with the exception of those relating to capital subscriptions described in Note A, are charged or credited to the General Reserve.
Valuation of Capital Stock
In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of the IBRD is expressed in terms of "US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the US law defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the preexisting basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. On October 14,1986, the Executive Directors of the IBRD decided, with effect starting on June 30, 1987 and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, to interpret the words "US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944" in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of US dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR).
Loans
All of the IBRD's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, members with the exception of loans to the International Finance Corporation. The principal amounts of loans are repayable in the currencies lent. For loans negotiated since July 1980 (and for portions of certain earlier loans), the repayment obligations of borrowers in various currencies are determined on the basis of a currency pooling system, which is designed to equalize exchange rate risks among borrowers. Interest on loans is accrued in the currencies lent.
The IBRD does not reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements. It is the policy of the IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of the IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by the IBRD. The IBRD begins to make provisions for losses on loans made to or guaranteed by a member of the IBRD when the loans are placed in
nonaccrual status. Each decision on the amount of provisioning is made on the basis of a review of the particular circumstances then prevailing. Any such provisions are recorded as a reduction of income and will be used to meet actual losses on such loans. Should such losses occur in amounts in excess of accumulated provisions (and of the amount of the Special Reserve) the excess would be included in the determination of net income.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between proceeds of sales and cost (on a last-in, first-out basis), are recorded as an element of income from investments. From time to time, the IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of settlement. Financial futures and options are valued at market, with both realized and unrealized gains and losses included in income from investments.
Disposition of Income and General Reserve
The IBRD has not declared or paid any dividends to its members. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the accumulated net income has been allocated to the General Reserve.
From net income of fiscal years 1964 to 1987, the IBRD transferred to the International Development Association the portion of each year's income that was not needed for allocation to reserves or otherwise required to be retained in the IBRD's business and accordingly could have been prudently distributed as dividends. In October 1985, the IBRD made a similar transfer to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, which is administered by the International Development Association. These transfers are recorded as a charge to Accumulated Net Income-Unallocated.
Note A—Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, and Maintenance of Value
Capital Stock: At June 30,1988, the IBRD's capital comprised 1,420,500 (786,500-1987) authorized shares, of which 757,953 (706,516-1987) shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 100,000 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $7,709,196,000 ($7,272,383,000-1987) has been paid in, and the remaining $83,726,464,000 ($77,958,175,000-1987) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of the IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans. As to $73,148,528,000 ($68,184,446,000-1987) the restriction on calls is imposed by the Articles of Agreement and as to $10,577,936,000 ($9,773,729,000-1987) by resolutions of the Board of Governors.
Restricted Currencies: The portion of capital subscriptions paid in to the IBRD is divided into two parts: (1) $770,920,000 ($727,238,000-1987) initially paid in gold or US dollars and (2) $6,938,276,000 ($6,545,145,0001987) paid in cash or non-interest-bearing demand obligations denominated either in the currencies of the respective members or in US dollars. Of this second portion, an amount of $152,989,000 ($134,217,000-1987) was subsequently repurchased by members with US dollars. The amounts mentioned in (1) above which are paid in gold or US dollars and the amounts subsequently repurchased with US dollars are freely usable by the IBRD in any of its operations. The remaining amounts paid in the currencies of the members or in US dollar-denominated notes, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by the IBRD in its lending operations only with the consent of the respective members. The equivalent of $4,456,793,000 ($4,006,909,000-1987) has been released for lending under such consent.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value, as of the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies, requiring (1) the member to make additional pay-
merits to the IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of the IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) the IBRD to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
The Executive Directors decided on October 14,1986 that maintenance of value settlements would be resumed effective June 30,1987. Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member's currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to the IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors decided to adopt a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
With respect to restricted currencies out on loan, maintenance of value obligations become effective only as such currencies are recovered by the IBRD. The maintenance of value amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan are included in Amounts Required to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings—Amounts Deterred.
1988 Capital Increase: On April 27,1988, the IBRD's Board of Governors adopted a resolution (the General Capital Increase) which increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by 620,000 shares; this represented an increase equivalent to approximately S74,800,0CO,CO0. These shares have been allocated to the individual member countries on a pro rata basis proportional to each member's allocation of shares prior to the General Capital Increase. Subscriptions will be accepted for these shares until September 30,1993 with early subscription encouraged but not required.
The paid-in portion of the shares authorized to be subscribed is 3%. Subscribing members are required to pay 0.3% of the subscription price in gold or US dollars and 2.7% in their respective currencies. The IBRD's expectation is for the local currency component to be released to the IBRD for disbursement within a three-year period following subscription.
On April 27,1988, the Board of Governors also adopted a related resolution which increased the authorized capital stock of the IBRD by 14,000 shares; this represented an increase equivalent to approximately $1,70^000,000. These additional shares are not allocated to existing members, but are reserved for new members.
Note B—Investments and Cash Collateral Invested
The market value of investment securities and invested cash collateral received on loaned securities, including investments not traded in the market which were valued at their cost of $9,698,707,000 ($5,351,638,0001987), was $21,223,549,000 ($22,071,854,000-1987), compared with a cost or amortized cost of $21,175,264,000 ($22,074,024,000-1987). Obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities having a cost or amortized cost of $292,538,000 ($292,538,000-1987) and a market value of $292,891,000 ($291,878,000-1987), set aside in respect of the Special Reserve, as described in Note E, are included under this heading.
Income from investments includes net gains ot $135,272,000 ($M,067,000-1987) resulting from sales of investments. The annualized rate of return on the average investments held during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988, including net gains from sales of investments, was 8.51% (7.59%—1987).
Note C—Loans, Cofinancing, and Guarantees
Loans: At June 30.1988, principal installments of $1,193,000 and interest and other charges of $1,135,000 payable to the IBRD on loans other than those referred to in the following paragraphs were overdue by more than three months. The aggregate principal amount disbursed and outstanding on these loans was $37,832,000. The aggregate principal amount disbursed
and outstanding on all loans to borrowers, other than those referred to in the following paragraphs, with any one loan overdue by more than three months was $125,570,000.
At June 30, 1988, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,924,190,000 ($842,624,000-1987), of which $378,851,000 ($71,217,000-1987) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. If these loans had not been in nonac-crual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988 would have been $320,744,000 ($76,230,000-1987) higher. A summary of borrowers in nonaccrual status follows:
Cofinancing and Guarantees: The IBRD has entered into agreements for loans syndicated by other financial institutions either by a direct participation in, or a partial guarantee of, loans for the benefit of member countries. The IBRD's direct participations in syndicated loans are included in reported loan balances. Guarantees of $933,682,000 as of June 30, 1988 ($933,628,000-1987) are not included in reported loan balances. None of these guarantees were subject to call at June 30,1988.
The IBRD has partially guaranteed the timely payment of interest amounts on certain loans that have been sold. At June 30, 1988 guarantees approximating $17,958,000 ($15,361,000-1987) were subject to call.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under the Articles, the total amount outstanding of guarantees, participations in loans, and direct loans made by the IBRD may not be increased to an amount exceeding 100% of the sum of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. On February 17,1987, the IBRD's Executive Directors issued guidelines pursuant to which all guarantees issued by the IBRD will be counted towards this limit at the time they may first become callable, irrespective of the likelihood of an actual call.
As of June 30,1988, the total amount of callable guarantees and disbursed and outstanding participations in loans and direct loans was approximately $81,809,329,000, or 81% of the sum of subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus. The comparable figure as of a year earlier was approximately 84%.
(continued)
Note D—Borrowings and Currency Swaps
The IBRD has entered into currency swaps in which proceeds of a borrowing are converted into a different currency and, simultaneously, a forward exchange agreement is executed providing for a schedule of future exchanges of the two currencies in order to recover the currency converted. Net receivable of $112,467,000 ($17,662,000-1987) and net payable of $1,920,830,000 ($2,397,114,000-1987), resulting primarily from exchange rate movements occurring subsequent to the dates of the swaps, are shown under the headings Receivables-Other and Other Liabilities, respectively. The effect of currency swaps is to transform the cost of the original borrowing to a cost which reflects the market yield of the currency obtained in the conversion. The average cost of borrowings outstanding, including short-term borrowings, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988 was 7.47% (7.73%—1987), reflecting a reduction of cost of $250,991,000 ($266,020,000-1987) as a result of currency swaps.
Note E—Reserves and Net Income
In July 1987, the IBRD allocated $1,012,930,000 to the General Reserve out of the $1,112,930,000 net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987 On October 1,1987, the IBRD transferred the balance of $100,000,000 by way of grant to the International Development Association.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6, of the Articles of Agreement which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of the IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the IBRD. The Special Reserve assets comprise obligations of the United States Government and its instrumentalities and are included under the heading Investments. As a result of a decision made in 1964, the allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
Note F—Income and Expenses
Other income includes gains of $5,128,000 ($4,235,000-1987), resulting from repurchases of obligations of the IBRD prior to maturity, and net gains from loan sales of $16,659,000 ($20,553,000-1987).
Administrative expenses are net of the management fee of $263,400,000 ($332,046,000-1987) charged to the International Development Association and of the service and support fee of $3,390,000 ($3,340,000-1987) charged to the International Finance Corporation. Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities.
In May 1987, the IBRD announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency and effectiveness. The direct costs of the reorganization, estimated to be $149,600,000, consist of the costs of staff separation, training of staff to improve their skills, office moves, and certain modifications to the IBRD's computer-based information and data systems. These costs were substantially paid between July 1, 1987 and December 31, 1987. The original
estimate of $101,300,000, which is net of the $43,900,000 allocation to the International Development Association, was included in Administrative Expenses in the Statement of Income for the year ended June 30, 1987. In September 1987 the cost estimate was revised and increased by $48,300,000. The portion of the increase which relates to the IBRD-$35,90O,fJ00—is included in Administrative Expenses for the year ended June 30, 1988 in the accompanying Statement of Income. The balance has been charged to the International Development Association.
Note G—Transfers to the International Development Association and to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to the International Development Association totaling $2,567,371,000 ($2,514,188,000-1987) from net income for the fiscal years ended June 30,1964 through June 30, 1987. Of these transfers, $773,291,000 remained payable at June 30, 1988 ($720,108,000-1987).
During the fiscal year ended June 30,1986 the IBRD authorized a transfer by way of a grant to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa of $150,000,000 from net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1985. The entire amount was payable at June 30, 1988.
Note H—Staff Retirement Plan
The IBRD has a contributory retirement plan for its staff, which also covers the staff of the International Finance Corporation. The staff contribute a fixed percentage of pensionable remuneration, and the IBRD contributes the remainder of the cost of funding the Plan. The IBRD uses an aggregate funding method for determining its cost. Such cost is funded as accrued. The cost of the Plan to the IBRD during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988 was $51,656,000 ($66,276,000-1987). All contributions to the Plan and all other assets and income held for the purposes of the Plan are held by the IBRD separately from the other assets and income of the IBRD and the International Finance Corporation and can be used only for the benefit of the participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries until all liabilities to them have been discharged. The comparison of accumulated benefits and net assets of the Plan is presented below:
The assumed rate of return used in determining the actuarial present value of the accumulated Plan benefits was 10% for 1988 (10%—1987).
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1988 and June 30, 1987
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Organization and Operations
IDA was established on September 24, 1960 to promote economic development, increase productivity, and raise the standard of living of its developing country members.
On October 26, 1982, IDA established the Special Fund constituted by funds to be contributed by members of IDA and administered by IDA, to supplement the regular resources available for lending by IDA. The arrangements governing the Special Fund may be amended or terminated by IDA'S Executive Directors subject to the agreement of a qualified majority of the contributors to the Special Fund. The Special Fund became effective on December 13, 1982. The resources of the Special Fund are kept separate from the resources of IDA.
On May 21,1985, IDA established a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by funds to be contributed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and other donors to provide financing lor countries of the Sub-Saharan region. The African Facility became effective on July 1,1985, and is administered by IDA. The resources of the African Facility are kept separate from the resources of IDA.
Translation of Currencies
IDA: IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members and Switzerland. Assets and liabilities are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting period. Income is generally translated at an average of the market rates of exchange in effect during each month. Subscriptions and contributions are translated in the manner described below. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are charged or credited to Cumulative Translation Adjustments on Development Credits. Other translation adjustments are included in the determination of Liquid Funds.
Special Fund and African Facility: Assets of the Special Fund and the African Facility are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Contributions are translated in the manner described below.
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions
IDA: The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed in terms ot "US dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960" (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the United States law defining the par value of the US dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. On June 30,1987, the Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect on that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, to interpret the words "United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1,1960" in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of United States dollars immediately before the introduction of the
basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1,1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the third replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the fourth replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members' currencies or SDRs and are payable in members' currencies. Prior to July 1, 1986, amounts receivable and amounts received but not yet disbursed were translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the accounting period. Amounts which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market rates of exchange on dates of disbursement or conversion. Beginning July 1, 1986, amounts received but not yet disbursed, as well as amounts disbursed or converted into other currencies, are translated at market rates of exchange on the dates they were made available for disbursement in cash to IDA.
Special Fund and African Facility: Undisbursed contributions are translated at market rates of exchange at the end of the period. Disbursed contributions are translated at market rates of exchange effective on the dates of disbursement.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development banks for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). It is IDA'S policy to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. Charges on nonaccruing credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. IDA has not suffered any losses on development credit receivables and has established no provision for credit losses because no losses are anticipated.
IDA: The repayment obligations of IDA'S development credits funded from resources through the fifth replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. Pending resolution of the valuation issue, as an interim measure, payments have been accepted at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar. On June 30, 1987, the Executive Directors decided to value such credits at that rate on a permanent basis. Consequently, no adjustment has been required to the item Development Credits Outstanding and the corresponding Cumulative Translation Adjustment. Development credits funded from resources provided under the sixth replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value of the disbursements in terms of SDRs.
Special Fund: Special Fund credits are denominated in SDRs. The principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed.
Special Fund credits are made on the same terms as regular IDA credits except that the proceeds of Special Fund credits may be used only to finance expenditures for goods or services from (a) Part II members of IDA; (b) Part I members contributing to the Special Fund; and (c) Part I members contributing to the regular resources of IDA through IDA'S FY84 Account who have notified IDA that such contributions are to be treated in the same manner as contributions to the Special Fund for purposes of any future adjustment of the voting rights of the members of IDA.
African Facility: African Facility credits are denominated in SDRs. The principal amounts disbursed under such credits are to be repaid in amounts equivalent to the value in terms of SDRs of currencies disbursed.
African Facility credits are made to member countries of IDA in Sub-Saharan Africa which are eligible for development credits of IDA and have undertaken or are committed to undertake medium-term programs of policy reform and stabilization measures acceptable to IDA. Proceeds of African Facility credits equivalent to the amount contributed by the IBRD shall be used in the same manner as the regular resources of IDA. The remaining proceeds may be used only to finance expenditures for goods produced or services supplied from (a) Part II members of IDA; (b) Part I members contributing to the African Facility; and (c) countries which maintain special joint financing arrangements with IDA.
Investments
Investment securities are recorded at cost or amortized cost which approximates market. Gains or losses on sales of investments, measured by the difference between average cost and proceeds of sales, are recorded as an element of income from investments.
Note A—Cash Not Immediately Available for Disbursement
Under the Articles of Agreement and the arrangements governing replenishments, IDA must take appropriate steps to ensure that, over a reasonable period of time, the resources provided by donors for lending by IDA are used on an approximately pro rata basis. Donors sometimes contribute cash substantially ahead of their pro rata share. Unless otherwise agreed, IDA does not disburse these funds ahead of donors' pro rata share. Cash Not Immediately Available for Disbursement represents the difference between the cash contributed and the amount available for disbursements on a pro rata basis.
Note B—Restricted Assets and Subscriptions
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments ol subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations; (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. IDA'S Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territories of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA.
Note C—Development Credits
Special Fund and African Facility Development Credits Outstanding are included in the Statements of Condition of IDA since the principal repayment on these credits shall become part of the general resources of IDA, unless otherwise provided in a decision of IDA'S Executive Directors to terminate administration of the Special Fund and/or African Facility by IDA.
At June 30, 1988 no development credits, other than those referred to below, were overdue by more than three months.
At June 30, 1988, the development credits made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $528,859,000 of which $3,414,000 was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. If these credits had not been in nonaccrual status, income from credits for the fiscal year would have been $8,981,000 higher. This nonaccrual policy went into effect in April 1988. A summary of borrowers in nonaccrual status follows:
Note D—Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA'S Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member's currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the members' territories, so long as and to the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the third replenishment but are not applicable to those of the fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987, that settlement of maintenance of value obligations, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements.
Note E—Contribution by Switzerland
IDA has received grant contributions in the amount of SwF181,480,000 from the Swiss Confederation which is not a member of IDA. The agreements between the Confederation and IDA provide for converting these grant contributions into subscriptions or contributions if Switzerland should become a member of IDA.
Note F—Subscriptions and Contributions
On June 26, 1987, the Board of Governors of IDA adopted a resolution authorizing the eighth replenishment of IDA'S resources. The amount of replenishment, including supplementary contributions provided by certain members and a grant from Switzerland, is equivalent to approximately $12.4 billion (at the exchange rates determined pursuant to a formula agreed among the contributing members). The eighth replenishment, which became effective on March 4, 1988 is providing IDA with resources to fund credits committed during the period July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1990. As of June 30, 1988, twenty-three contributing members (including eighteen Part I members) have notified IDA that they will contribute the equivalent of approximately $10.7 billion to the eighth replenishment. Payment of eighth replenishment subscriptions and contributions is due in three equal annual installments, unless IDA agrees to a different schedule.
For purposes of credit commitments by IDA, all contributions to the eighth replenishment are divided into three equal annual tranches. The first tranche became available for commitment as of the effective date ol the replenishment (except to the extent already available in the form of advance contributions); the second and third tranches will become available for commitment by IDA for credits as of November 1, 1988 and 1989, respectively, unless a contributing member authorizes IDA to use such amounts earlier. Contributions may not be released in their entirety by other contributing members if any contributing member with a share in the replenishment of more than 20% which has deposited with IDA a Qualified Instrument of Commitment has not deposited notifications of unqualified commitments for the second and third tranches of its contribution by October 31, 1988 and October 31, 1989, respectively. In this situation, other contributing members have the right to reduce their second and third tranches (whichever is applicable) on a pro rata basis.
At June 30,1988 and 1987, the composition of unrestricted subscriptions and contributions (expressed in thousands of US dollars) not yet due will become due as follows:
Note G—Transfers from The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
IDA: The IBRD has authorized transfers by way of grants to IDA totaling $2,567,371,000 ($2,514,188,000-1987) from net income of the IBRD for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1964 through June 30,1987. Of the total amount, $79,905,000 ($79,905,000-1987) has been disbursed for grants for agricultural research, the control of onchocerciasis, and other developmental activities. Of the balance of $2,487,466,000 ($2,434,283,0001987) available lor general purposes of IDA, $1,714,175,000 ($1,714,175,000-1987) has been received and $773,291,000 ($720,108,000-1987) is reflected as a receivable from the IBRD.
African Facility: The IBRD authorized a transfer to the African Facility of $150,000,000 from net income of the IBRD for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1985. These funds will be paid to the African Facility as needed to finance African Facility credits.
Note H—Income and Expenses
IDA: IDA pays a management fee to the IBRD representing its share of the administrative expenses incurred by the IBRD. In May 1987 the IBRD announced a reorganization to improve its efficiency and effectiveness. IDA'S original share of accrued reorganization costs of $43,900,000 was included in its Management Fee to IBRD in the Statements of Changes in Liquid Funds for the year ended June 30, 1987. In September 1987 the cost estimate of the reorganization was revised, and IDA'S share was increased to $56,300,000. The portion of the increase which related to IDA of $12,400,000 is included in Management Fee in the accompanying Statements of Changes in Liquid Funds for the year ended June 30,1988.
Special Fund and African Facility: The service and commitment charges payable by borrowers under Special Fund and African Facility credits are paid directly to IDA to compensate it for services as administrator of the Special Fund and the African Facility. Income from investments of the Special Fund and the African Facility becomes part of the resources of the Special Fund and the African Facility, respectively.