Poverty remains a global 'problem of huge proportions.
Nearly half of the world’s 6 billion people live on less than $2 a day; about a fifth live on less than $ 1 a day. Poor people lack opportunity. They lack voice. And they are extremely vulnerable to sickness, violence, and natural disasters. Developed and developing countries, the World Bank, and its partners in the development community are firmly committed to making a difference, with the full conviction that progress is possible—with concerted action.
About the cover: The World Bank has for several years been the world’s largest external financier of human development programs. In fiscal 2001 the Bank markedly intensified its fight against communicable diseases—to prolong life, improve its quality, and protect development prospects in the world’s poorest countries.
Note
This is the first of two volumes that will be distributed as a set. The complete Management's Discussion and Analysis, audited financial statements of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, audited financial statements of the International Development Association, and appendixes are published in a separate volume as The World Bank Annual Report 2001: Volume 2, Financial Statements and Appendixes. This Annual Report is also available on the Internet at www.worldbank.org.
All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.
Message from the President of the World Bank and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors
The poverty reduction agenda has advanced significantly over the past year, with development partners coming together as never before. We must now build on that momentum. Progress in reducing poverty remains slow too many girls still do not go to school, too many children die before the age of five, and too many poor people lack opportunity.
The urgency for action is pressing. Nearly half of the world’s people live on less than $2 a day, and their numbers will grow in the next 25 years, as nearly two billion more people are added to developing countries’ populations. The stakes are high, as poverty touches all—and drives prospects for no less than global peace How can we scale up successes enough to meet the international development goals for 2015? (See page 4 ) Only with concerted action can we make a difference.
PROGRESS IS EVIDENT...ATTHE COUNTRY AND REGIONAL LEVELS...
Over the past year, I was privileged to visit India and Africa, which, between them, hold 55 percent of the world’s poor. They offer striking examples of the ways in which societies are transforming.
In India’s Andhra Pradesh state, rural women are engaging in open discussions—unthinkable a few years ago—on how to confront the problem of HIV/AIDS. In the same state, e-government has cut the time taken for land registration from six months to 20 minutes. Elsewhere, empowered grassroots communities are successfully implementing the country’s education projects now covering 50 million children.
Africa is on the move. On a first-ever joint trip by the heads of the World Bank and the IMF, Horst Kohler and I met with 22 African presidents. We were deeply impressed by their conviction that Africa’s future lies in its own hands, and by their commitment to far-reaching change Leaders stressed the need to deal with conflict and governance, combat HIV/AIDS; and pursue stronger regional cooperation.
Middle-income countries, too, are addressing poverty-related concerns ranging from inequality and governance to urban pollution and rural infrastructure, and are increasingly adopting sound macroeco-
In Hyderabad, India, a group of women peer educators animatedly explain to James D Wolfensohn their work on HIV/AIDS awareness programs under the Bank-supported National AIDS Control Project
nomic policies Developing countries, on average, have begun to enjoy higher per capita growth rates than industrial countries
...AND AT THE GLOBAL LEVEL...
A remarkable development of the past year is the unprecedented alignment of partners around a com mon global development agenda, embodied in the Millennium Declaration adopted by leaders of the world’s nations Common guiding principles for development partnership, too, as outlined in the Comprehensive Development Framework, have gained growing acceptance—by the United Nations and, most recently, by the Development Committee for application also in middle-income countries These principles emphasize a comprehensive approach, country ownership, partnership, and a focus on results Other major steps forward are the European Union’s decision to adopt the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers approach, as well as growing efforts among all donors to harmonize aid procedures and untie procurement
...BUT 2015 IS APPROACHING, AND ALL MUST ACT
Halving the percentage of those in poverty by 2015 is an immense challenge Global action is a moral imperative, all have a responsibility.
Developing countries need to ensure sound policy and institutional environments and an attractive investment climate. Equally crucial are inclusive policies, to allow the benefits of growth to reach poor people
Donor countries need to remove trade barriers and open their markets. They need to provide debt relief and new concessional finance, multilaterally— foremost through an adequate 13th Replenishment of IDA and funding of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative—as well as bilaterally. An increase in aid is crucial, from the present 0 22 percent of gross national income to the 0 7 percent share committed by rich countries. And concerted international efforts must help fight major global problems and strengthen the structures needed to help countries avoid crises and integrate into the global economy.
Action and progess, moreover, will need to be built on a solid base of global growth and sound macroeconomic policies
THE WORLD BANK IS COMMITTED TO CONCERTED ACTION
Guided by the 2015 poverty goal, we have strengthened the poverty focus of our efforts. This has meant intensified support to the HIPC Initiative, helping 23 of the world’s poorest countries shift about $1 billion from annual debt service to spending on basic social services It has also meant helping the governments of poor countries take the lead in preparing poverty reduction strategies developed with national consensus, and especially involving civil society and the private sector. The role of business in job creation is crucial, we have expanded our work in microcredit and our support for small and medium enterprises
We have radically transformed the way we do business. A persistent focus on quality has vastly improved the effectiveness of billions of dollars of Bank lending We are also responding more quickly and flexibly to client needs and have substantially strengthened our knowledge sharing with clients.
We have made partnership—with countries and with other development agencies—intrinsic to all that we do A key priority is the ongoing initiative for the harmonization of donor policies and procedures to reduce costs for developing countries And we have stepped up collaborative efforts to address such enormous development challenges as HIV/AIDS, conflict, environmental decline, and the digital divide These efforts have included innovative support to help Africa fight HIV/AIDS and become more competitive
In fiscal 2001 the Bank articulated a Strategic Framework for action over the next three years The Framework sets two priorities strengthening countries’ investment climates, and helping them empower and invest in poor people. It emphasizes selectivity—within and across countries as well as at the global level—and partnership
What counts, ultimately, is impact. Outcomes of individual Bank-financed operations have improved markedly. But achieving the broader impact of an overall Country Assistance Strategy is a long-term endeavor, involving players and factors beyond the control of any one institution. The coming together of the development community on a common set of development goals provides a solid basis for progress. The Bank is committed to action to help realize this vision. I am deeply indebted to my colleagues whose commitment has earned us our position of strength today. I rely on them to take the Bank forward, in concert with our partners.
In closing, on behalf of the Board of Directors and Bank staff, I would like to pay tribute to the late Ibrahim Shihata who died on May 28, 2001. As
Senior Vice President and General Counsel from 1983 to 1998, Ibrahim was a brilliant lawyer and dedicated officer of this institution (see page 61). History will recognize his landmark contributions to the Bank Group and to the cause of poverty reduction in our client countries.
Incidence of income poverty down 20 percent, but uneven progress
The global decline has been driven by progress in China and India. With higher growth in developing countries, the goal can be achieved globally, but at current rates of progress many countries will fall short.
Enrollment rates rising slowly
Primary school enrollments remain far offtrack, especially in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Even countries that have succeeded in bringing more children to school need to worry about the quality of education.
Progress in some regions, but little time left
Eliminating gender disparities in primary and secondary education Is one step toward gender equality and the empowerment of women. Very little time is left before 2005, the target year.
Slow progress on average
Many .countries have significantly cut these rates in the last 10 years, but on current trends no region will achieve these goals.
Improved health care needed
While data are not sufficient to measure maternal mortality trends, global estimates suggest that over 500,000 women died from causes related to childbirth in 1995.
If skilled health personnel attended 90 percent of all births, those numbers could be dramatically reduced.
Rising contraceptive use in most countries
But there are large regional differences. In Sub-Saharan Africa, only 26 percent of married women practice contraception. In East Asia, over 75 percent do.
The international development goals set targets for reduction in poverty, Improvements in health and education, and protection of the environment. First agreed on at major United Nations (U.N.) conferences in the 1990s, the goals have been adopted by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the members of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and many other agencies, as a framework for motivating (and measuring) development progress. Marking an extraordinary consensus reflected in the U.N. Millennium Declaration, an expanded set of goats was endorsed by 149 heads of state and adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in September 2000.
The ambitious targets for 2015 provide a formidable challenge to the international community. One-fifth of all people live on less than $1 a day. About 10 million children under the age of five died in 1999, most from preventable diseases. Over 500,000 women die each year during pregnancy or childbirth. And about 113 million children do not attend primary school. Achieving the goats means lifting more than 300 million out of poverty, preventing more than 55 million infant and child deaths and over 4 million maternal deaths, and providing places for at least 128 million more primary school students by 2015. After 10 years, there are signs of progress, but many of the goals are not likely to be achieved without renewed— and bold—effort.
Access to water improving
Achieving the 2015 target in Africa, Asia, and Latin America will require providing an additional 1.5 billion people with access to an improved water source.
PROGRESS TO DATE
Substantial progress in poverty reduction has been made in some areas. In the 1990s significant progress was made in reducing income poverty in East Asia before the 1997 financial crisis, and the negative impact of the crisis was partially reversed during the subsequent recovery. The share of people living below $ 1 per day also declined in Latin America and the Caribbean, and in South Asia, although the number of poor people still increased in South Asia because of population growth. On average, poverty declined in fast-growing countries and increased in countries experiencing stagnation or contraction.
PROSPECTS FOR 2015
Projections indicate that, if developing countries’ average per capita gross domestic product (GDP) were to grow at a sustained rate of 3.7 percent (“base case’’ in the graphs)—higher than the 1990s' average of 1.8 percent and the 2.3 percent average of the low case used for the graphs—the global incidence of absolute poverty could decline from 23 percent in 1998 to 13 percent in 2015. The number of poor could drop from 1.2 billion to less than 800 million. But many countries, especially in Africa, would still not reach the goal of halving poverty by 2015.
The International Development Goals: A Particular Challenge for Africa
Life expectancy decreased, on average, from 50 years in 1987 to 47 years in 1999, largely under the devastating impact of HIV/AIDS; in hardest-hit countries such as Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Zimbabwe, life expectancy fell by more than
10	years.
Child mortality increased from 155 per 1,000 in 1990 to 161 per 1,000 in 1999; it declined in all other regions.
Health-care systems, weakened by conflict, poor management, and the impact of HIV/AIDS, are finding themselves unable to cope with traditional illnesses, and malaria and tuberculosis continue to kill millions Gross primary school enrollment rates declined between 1980 and the mid-1990s; nine countries still reported net primary enrollment rates of less than 50 percent in the 1990s, with even lower rates for girls.
But breaking the cycle of impoverishment Is possible: in countries such as Ethiopia, Ghana, Mauritania, and Uganda, sustained economic recovery and stability have helped reduce poverty and improve living conditions.
The international development goals reflect an unprecedented consensus of the international community. Shared goals support the effort to increase aid effectiveness through stronger partnership and country leadership
A NEW DEVELOPMENT COMRACT
The agenda facing developing countries is formidable. Many developing countries already reflect the goals in their strategies, others have identified specific intermediate measures linked to longer-term poverty reduction outcomes. Pursuing sound domestic policies will be critical to attracting greater resources. Sound macroeconomic policies, strong financial systems, and well-functioning regulatory, legal, and judicial frameworks will enhance the effectiveness of aid and attract more productive private investment.
The responsibility of developed countries stands out even more clearly as developing countries take full responsibility for their own choices. Key areas for action are summarized below.
1	Dismantling trade barriers is fundamental
Trade barriers in high-income countries cost developing countries over $100 billion a year Trade restrictions set by the high-income members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) offset the benefit of their aid contributions (See left figure below.)
2	The debt relief agenda must go forward
Following the substantial advances made in fiscal 2001, the next challenge is to move forward with implementation of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, in particular in those countries affected by conflict. Securing sustainable financing on appropriately concessional terms will also be important. (See middle figure below)
3	Now is the time to increase aid
Developing countries’ efforts to improve their policy environments are allowing them to make more effective use of aid. Support from most members of the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) falls well short of the pledged
0	7 percent share of gross national income, so far only Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden—and most recently Luxembourg—have met this target While average DAC contributions declined in 2000, however, aid levels from 15 of 22 DAC members increased over the prior year. (See right figure below.)
4	Simplifying and harmonizing aid procedures will lower the burden on developing countries
Multilateral and bilateral donors, working together, can do much to reduce the costs to developing countries of managing aid programs in areas ranging from strategy and medium-term financing to procurement and evaluation Recent progress in untying aid and procurement will promote efficiency.
WORLD BANK MISSION
Poverty reduction is the World Bank’s mission, guided by the international development goals. In pursuit of poverty reduction, the World Bank will rely on its business approach and institutional strengths.
Business approach:
A long-term, comprehensive, country-led approach to development Participatory development and partnership A focus on operational quality, development effectiveness, and outcomes Knowledge sharing and capacity building Increasing selectivity within countries, across countries, and at the global level
Institutional strengths:
Financial strength Global reach
Broad diagnostic capabilities Operational knowledge
Strong partnerships with clients, other donors, and civil society
BANK ASSISTANCE WILL BE DELIVERED PRIMARILY AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL, FOCUSED ON:
Building the climate for investment, jobs, and growth
Private investment climate Public sector governance
For low-income countries, priority areas of assistance will be.
Where poverty is concentrated Where the policy environment is favorable for poverty reduction . Where post-conflict challenges are urgent
Empowering poor people to participate in development, and investing in them
Empowerment, security, and social inclusion
Education
Health
For middle-income countries, priority themes of assistance will be:
- Policy and institutional reform for reducing poverty
Well-targeted, high-impact investments " Promoting competitiveness in the global knowledge economy
BANK SUPPORT FOR INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS TO PROVIDE CRITICAL GLOBAL PUBLIC GOODS WILL FOCUS ON:
IBRD provides important support for poverty reduction. How? By providing its middle-income client countries access to capital in larger volumes, on good terms, with longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than the market provides. IBRD:
□	Supports long-term human and social development needs that private creditors largely find unappealing.
□	Preserves borrowers’ financial strength by providing support in crisis periods, when poor people are most adversely affected.
□	Uses the leverage of finance to promote key policy and institutional reforms (such
as safety-net or anticorruption reforms).
□	Catalyzes private capital by helping create a favorable investment climate.
□	Provides financial support (in the form of grants made available from IBRD net income) for global public goods that are critical for the wellbeing of poor people in all countries.
The Treasury trading room is the nerve center of the Bank's innovative financial transactions such as the e-bond issued in January 2000. Investing the Bank's liquid assets, managing balance sheet risks, and meeting bond investor needs are crucial to the Bank's ability to respond to clients' financing needs.
What Is IBRD?
IBRD is a AM-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments. Its member borrowers have a voice in setting its policies. They also usually accord preferred creditor status to IBRD, helping it stay financially strong. IBRD loans are typically accompanied by nonlending services to ensure more effective use of funds. Also, unlike commercial banks, it is driven by a development impact, rather than profit maximization, objective.
Who Are IBRD’s Clients?
Seventy-five percent of people who live on less than $1 per day live in countries that receive IBRD lending, which are typically middle-income and enjoy some access to private capital markets but include countries that also borrow from IDA. Even excluding countries that also borrow from IDA, such as India, Indonesia, Nigeria, and Pakistan, a full 25 percent of the world’s $1-a-day poor live in countries that are IBRD borrowers.
Preserving AAA-rated financial strength
To maintain income-generating capacity, help manage risk, and support IBRD’s development objectives
Elements of IBRD’s Financial Strategy
Achieving efficient intermediation
To ensure cost-effective funding for development uses
Adapting to borrower needs
To ensure flexibility and innovation in meeting diverse and changing client needs
□	Capital commitments of 183 sovereign shareholders
□	Strong record of repayment by borrowers, reflecting priority given to IBRD debt
□	Conservative financial management
□	Substantial liquidity
□	Conservative capital structure
□	Risk-minimizing lending policies
□	Wide access to markets
□	50 years of capital market innovation
□	Leadership in new products, structured finance, emerging market issuance
□	Wide underwriter partnerships
□	Diversified global investor base
□	Ample Treasury liquidity
□	Strong derivatives capacity
□	Active asset-liability management
□	Product innovations to help clients manage their financial, debt, and crisis strategies
□	Wide borrower choice in loan types
□	Increasing currency and interest rate choice
□	Flexible guarantees, both to help private sector financing and to support reforms
□	Increased choice of lending terms
IDA helps the world’s poorest countries reduce poverty by providing “credits,” which are loans at zero interest with a 10-year grace period and maturities of 35 to 40 years These countries face complex challenges in striving for progress toward the international development goals They must, for example, respond to the competitive pressures as well as opportunities of globalization, arrest the spread of HIV/AIDS, and prevent conflict or deal with its aftermath To help these countries improve their prospects, the policy framework emphasizes j Accelerating broad-based growth through sound macroeconomic and sectoral policies, especially for rural and private sector development.
' 1 Investing in people through strong support for the social sectors (see figure), including gender mainstreaming and efforts to counter the challenge and social impact of communicable diseases, especially HIV/AIDS.
' ' Building capacity for improving governance-including in public expenditure management— and combating corruption.
; Protecting the environment for sustainable development 1 ’ Fostering recovery in post-conflict countries Promoting trade and regional integration.
OGD»GEE(lag£fti)
OaSSSDEGD $EKB feQ gflil & CGDSSB	ft» Sg»nDDfl®g {gJSSKGGD
0®-] (-saaKi? rateSiai) to aaffifitee ffiee See® @ raaifi as Gstas, 0©ft teste §fl)
(•ftsaftag Ite seeCBteKiss to samflte ®gfi gmai© tag	0®S asetosB a
8®tog(i@aaB08te(B@aio@®toa^^
Sfem fttesgi) teDptes)
G@8mn@3&, aaD @a£Bffi5?£EBa3
(•K®j@0S aaaififtaB	Ob ®b gtefisD ©asaxgiHei aoall
tasted
IDA’S EVOLVING ROLE: GREATER EMPHASIS ON PARTICIPATION AND PARTNERSHIPS
Responding to recent changes in the international development environment, IDA works more closely with borrowers and other development partners The Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, prepared in a participatory manner by IDA countries, offer an opportunity to align donor strategies more closely with country strategies.
The Bank took important steps in the spring of 2001 to increase transparency and broaden participation in the formulation of IDA’s operational approaches Documents for the donor meetings on the 13th Replenishment of IDA (IDA-13)—which will fund lending in fiscal 2003-05—are publicly available at www.worldbank.org/ida @ And in June 2001, for the first time m IDA’s 41-year history, representatives of borrowing countries joined donors in discussions about IDA’s future directions.
IDA’S Stepped-up Effort in the Social Sectors
285 Projects ongoing (compared with 184 a decade ago)
The map reflects the following developments at the end of fiscal 2001: Bolivia became eligible for IBRD in addition to IDA funds; FYR Macedonia graduated from IDA eligibility; and Uzbekistan and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia became eligible for IDA in addition to IBRD funds.
Please see the Office Locations and Country Eligibility for Borrowing from The World Bank tables on pages 135 and 139, respectively.
The World Bank, with a mission to fight poverty and improve living standards for people in the developing world, is among the world’s leading development institutions. It provides loans, policy advice, technical assistance, and knowledge-sharing services. IBRD and IDA— together the “World Bank”—are owned by member countries that carry ultimate decisionmaking power. The World Bank Group today consists of five closely associated institutions.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Established 1945 'H 183 Members Cumulative lending: $360 billion Fiscal 2001 lending: $10.5 billion for 91 new operations in 36 countries
Established 1960 □ 162 Members Cumulative lending: $127 billion Fiscal 2001 lending: $6.8 billion for 134 new operations in 57 countries
Ambulances, furnished by Bulgaria's Health Sector Restructuring Project, stand ready to provide emergency service in Sofia. The project, which has also trained physicians and emergency personnel, has dramatically reduced the mortality rate in emergency service cases, resulting in more than 2,300 lives saved a year.
IBRD aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development, through loans, guarantees, and nonlending—including analytical and advisory—services. IBRD does not maximize profit but has earned a net income each year since 1948. Its profits fund several developmental activities and ensure financial strength, which enables low-cost borrowings in capital markets, and good terms for borrowing clients. Owned by member countries, IBRD links voting power to members’ capital subscriptions—in turn based on a country’s relative economic strength.
Newly literate Bangladeshi women learn to utilize their new skills toward better employment and income-generating opportunities under the Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project, which targets 1.6 million of the country's poorest, half of them women.
Contributions to IDA enable the World Bank to provide $6-7 billion per year in interest-free credits to the world’s 78 poorest countries, home to 2.4 billion people. This support is vital because these countries have little or no capacity to borrow on market terms. In most of these countries incomes average under just $500 a year per person, and many people survive on much less. IDA helps provide access to better basic services (such as education, health care, and clean water and sanitation) and supports reforms and investments aimed at productivity growth and employment creation.
Established 1956 D 175 Members Committed portfolio $21 8 billion^ Fiscal 2001 commitments $3 9 billiont in 205 companies for 74 countries
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Established 1988 C1 154 Members Cumulative guarantees issued $9 1 billion
Fiscal 2001 guarantees issued $2 billion
Women at the Uki River Farm in Kenya pack vegetables for export Private sector businesses like this one provide jobs that help improve lives and contribute to economic strength and stability
Children in San Marcos, Peru, attend a computer learning session at a training center created and operated by a project benefiting from MIGA guarantees
IFC’s mandate is to further economic development through the private sector. Working with business partners, it invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing countries and provides long-term loans, guarantees, and risk management and advisory services to its clients IFC invests in projects in regions and sectors underserved by private investment and finds new ways to develop promising opportunities in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation
MIGA helps encourage foreign investment in developing countries by providing guarantees to foreign investors against losses caused by noncommercial risks, such as expropriation, currency inconvertibility and transfer restrictions, and war and civil disturbances Furthermore, MIGA provides technical assistance to help countries disseminate information on investment opportunities. The agency also offers investment dispute mediation on request.
* Includes syndications, $14 3 billion for own account t Includes syndications, $2 7 billion for own account
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
Established 1966 I 134 Members Total cases registered 87 Fiscal 2001 cases registered 12
A port terminal concession in Argentina was among the matters settled in ICSID during fiscal 2001
ICSID helps to encourage foreign investment by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, in this way helping to foster an atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and foreign investors. Many international agreements concerning investment refer to ICSID’s arbitration facilities ICSID also has research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law
IBRD Financial Results
Net Return on Assets
(percent)
MANAGING RETURNS TO MAINTAIN STRENGTH
MANAGING RISK
ACHIEVING EFFICIENT INTERMEDIATION
As a cooperative institution, IBRD does not seek to maximize profit but to earn a return on assets sufficient to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities on an ongoing basis. IBRD achieves a net return on assets of about 1 percent per annum. In fiscal 2001, an increase in loan loss provision reduced net return on assets, to under 1 percent.
*ln fiscal 2001 IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No 133 and International Accounting Standard No 39, which required that derivative instruments be reported at fair value Without adoption of these standards, the ratio would have been 0 78
Consistent with its development mandate, IBRD’s main risk is the credit risk of its loan portfolio. This risk is closely managed.
IBRD keeps its exposure to market risk quite limited. Market risk arises due to movements in market variables, such as interest rates and exchange rates.
IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio is a summary measure of its risk-bearing capacity. The ratio is conservatively managed in light of IBRD’s financial and risk outlook.
IBRD’s high credit rating (AAA) allows the Bank to borrow for long maturities at favorable terms. The Bank borrows globally in multiple markets and currencies. Outstanding debt after swaps reached 76 percent of average total earning assets, as of June 30, 2001. As of June 30, 2001, the liquid asset portfolio was $24.2 billion, composed of liquid investments.
f Outstanding borrowings, net of swaps
a Excerpted from the audited financial statements presented in volume 2 of this Annual Report b Outstanding borrowings, net of swaps
Where the World Bank Got Its Money in Fiscal 2001
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
In fiscal 2001 IBRD raised $17 billion, before swaps, at medium- to long-term maturities, in international debt capital markets. Borrowings and shareholder equity fund IBRD’s loans and investments.
The year’s funding volume was above that of fiscal 2000, after peaking in fiscal 1998 due to above-average demand for financing.
IBRD’s financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices.
IBRD issued debt in nine currencies and in a wide range of maturities and structures in fiscal 2001. Diversification helps lower borrowers’ funding costs and expands IBRD’s investor base.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IDA donors come together every three years to decide on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA’s future lending program and to discuss lending policies and priorities.
Fiscal 2001 was the second year of the 12th Replenishment of IDA. IDA-12 is designed to provide IDA with resources to fund credits committed during the period July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2002. Nearly 40 countries are IDA donors. Donor nations include not only industrial countries but also developing and transition countries—some of them IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers—such as Argentina, Brazil, Hungary, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Turkey (see page 35). IDA’s financial strength is based on the strong and continued support of its donors as well as reflows.
Sources of IDA funding
(billions of dollars)
150
Where Do IBRD’s Profits Go?
IBRD’s net income serves several purposes related to Its mission:
A portion of net Income Is retained annually to ensure IBRD's financial Integrity. The General Reserve allows IBRD to assume credit risk In lending to countries at the lowest funding costs— which In turn benefits borrowers. Income retention has enabled IBRD to maintain financial soundness through periods of deteriorating loan quality as well as surging loan demand.
Support to IDA has consistently been a priority. Over the last five years, $1.6 billion (or about 22 percent of IBRD net Income) has been transferred to IDA.
Support for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative has also been Important. Over the last five years transfers to the HIPC Trust Fund have amounted to a total of $900 million, averaging about 12 percent of annual IBRD net Income.
IBRD's net Income helps meet other developmental needs from time to time. It enables IBRD to respond to unforeseen humanitarian crises and provide grants or other support for worthy causes. IBRD also regularly shares Income with its borrowing members through partial waivers of the interest and commitment fees it contractually charges on its loans.
Financial strength and standing In the markets allow IBRD to leverage Its equity by five times in the international bond markets. This leverage increases IBRD's ability to lend for developmental activities.
LENDING: QUALITY UP, VOLUME STABLE
The quality of IBRD operations continued to improve fewer ongoing projects were at risk of not achieving their development objectives compared with last year.
The portfolio of ongoing projects (713) was smaller than last year’s (764), reflecting a decline in approvals of new operations (91 approved in fiscal 2001 compared with an annual average of 130 in the last five years) and efforts to ensure the timely completion of projects under implementation.
As access to international capital markets continued to improve for many countries, IBRD lending stabilized at slightly below last year’s $10 9 billion.
The share of adjustment lending continued to decline (38 percent in fiscal 2001, down from 41 percent in fiscal 2000 and 63 percent in fiscal 1999), approaching pre-East Asia crisis levels.
LENDING BY REGION AND SECTOR
New IBRD lending commitments in fiscal 2001 were highest for the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) Region ($4.8 billion), followed by the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region ($2 2 billion)
Latin American countries also accounted for close to 69 percent of IBRD’s adjustment lending, half of it in phased, programmatic support for medium-term policy reform and institution-building efforts (for example, fiscal and financial reform in Brazil, social sector reform in Peru, and bank restructuring in Jamaica).
Human development was a high priority in fiscal 2001, the share of education, health/nutrition/ population, and social protection lending in total IBRD lending increased to 21 percent ($2.2 billion) from 16 percent ($17 billion) in fiscal
2000	Most of the increase was concentrated in the LAC Region
IBRD lending also helped borrowers to strengthen their financial sector ($1 7 billion), improve public sector management ($1 4 billion), meet infrastructure needs ($2.7 billion, including $2.4 billion in the transport sector), and support the environment and rural development ($1.3 billion)
ECONOMIC AND SECTOR WORK (ESW)
In fiscal 2001, 230 ESW products were delivered for IBRD-eligible countries—including 38 core diagnostic reports underpinning Country Assistance Strategies and adjustment lending (poverty assessments, country economic memoranda, public expenditure reviews, country financial accountability assessments, and country procurement assessments)—compared with 259 products in fiscal 2000.
In addition, reports on the financial sector, rural development, social protection, and other sectors enhanced the design of projects and supported the dialogue on policy and institutional priorities Twenty-seven ESW products were delivered for India, the year’s largest IBRD borrower. The ECA Region accounted for nearly 40 percent of ESW deliveries, with 44 country studies supplemented by 30 regional reports focusing on topics such as education, enterprise restructuring, and accession to the European Union.
LENDING: QUALITY UP, VOLUME UP
□	The quality of ongoing IDA operations continued to improve, with fewer projects at risk than last year.
□	The size of IDA’s active project portfolio increased to 735 from 729 in fiscal 2000 as a result of a significantly larger number of new approvals (134 operations in fiscal 2001 compared with an annual average of 127 in the last five years).
r < New IDA commitments reached $6 8 billion compared with $4 4 billion m fiscal 2000 Contributing to this rise was $1 4 billion in new commitments to three countries (Ethiopia,
Kenya, and Pakistan) that had received no new IDA financing in fiscal 2000.
. ’ The share of adjustment lending increased to 27 percent from 16 percent in fiscal 2000 as a result of a number of large adjustment loans, including the first two PRSCs approved for Uganda and Vietnam
LENDING BY REGION AND SECTOR
□	IDA lending increased in all Regions, except in the Middle East and North Africa Region, which maintained last year’s lending levels IDA lending to the Africa Region ($3.4 billion) reached 50 percent of total new IDA commitments, and included several Africa-wide programs—a concerted response to the HIV/AIDS crisis, help to adjust to oil price shocks, promotion of regional trade, and post-conflict reconstruction support.
Ethiopia was the largest IDA borrower in fiscal 2001 ($667 million), followed by Vietnam ($629 million) and India ($520 million).
IDA support for human development—education, health/nutntion/population (including HIV/AIDS), and social protection—reached $2.2 billion (representing a $600 million increase compared to fiscal 2000) f I Other priorities were economic reform and public sector management ($1.3 billion), infrastructure development ($0.9 billion), finance and private sector development ($1 billion, representing an almost $600 million increase over last year), and rural development and the environment ($1 billion).
ECONOMIC AND SECTOR WORK (ESW)
! ! One hundred and five ESW products were delivered for IDA-eligible countries in fiscal 2001, slightly less than the previous year’s total of 119 f_n Core diagnostic reports, numbering 24, covered poverty, social and structural analysis, public expenditure management, financial accountability assessments, and procurement assessments, helping countries to improve governance, financial discipline, and the targeting of public expenditures on poverty reduction, f J Other diagnostic and advisory reports centered on education and rural, social, and private sector development.
The Africa Region accounted for 36 percent of total ESW deliveries, followed by South Asia (23 percent) and ECA (14 percent).
Cofinancing* describes funds committed by official bilateral partners, multilateral 'partners, export credit agenctes, or private sources to specific Bank-funded projects. Partners include regional development banks, multilateral partners such as those associated with environmental agreements, and special program mechanisms, as well as private sector actors that provide project financing The Bank’s cofinancing figures reflect the combining of Bank resources with those of other donors in specific regions and sectors to support client country activities. The wider the participation in the cofinancing effort, the greater the consensus on the activities and policies supported.
Cofinancing in fiscal 2001 amounted to $5.47 billion. Multilateral and bilateral partners contributed 85 percent of this amount. Major partners included the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB—$ 1.9 billion); the Japan Bank for International Cooperation ($0.53 billion); and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW—$0.3 billion). This year’s cofinancing was below the previous year’s level ($9 3 billion), reflecting unusually large volumes of cofinancing in fiscal 2000 for the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project ($3.4 billion) and in China ($0.4 billion).
The Latin America and the Caribbean Region accounted for the largest share of cofinancing in fiscal 2001 ($3.4 billion), followed by Africa ($1.12 billion) and Europe and Central Asia ($0.46 billion). The major sectors attracting cofinancing were public sector management ($1.2 billion), finance ($1 billion), and oil and gas ($0.9 billion).
In addition to cofinancing of $5.47 billion,
$2 billion was committed in fiscal 2001 under the Strategic Partnership with Africa framework. The commitment, which reflected close donor coordination on policies in the context of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (in Benin and Uganda, for example), was above the amount committed in fiscal 2000 ($0.51 billion).
Total projects cofinanced by the Bank and its partners numbered 131 In fiscal 2001. Examples of projects with significant cofinancing include:
The Bolivia Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization leveraged $20 million in funds from three partners: Department for International Development, United Kingdom; Sweden; and the Netherlands. Parallel cofinancing of $127 million came from KfW, the German Technical Assistance Corporation, Denmark, the U.S. Agency for International Development, the Andean Development Corporation, and the IADB.
The Mali Education Sector Expenditure Project leveraged $154 million from 15 donors: the African Development Bank, the Agence Franfaise de Dfiveloppement, the Canadian International Development Agency, Sweden, the United States, the Islamic Development Bank, KfW, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, and the World Food Program.
The India Power Grid II Project received $175 million of cofinancing from KfW.
The West Bank and Gaza lending program Is financed through the Bank-established Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank.
The fund has been allocated $380 million from the Bank’s net income and since September 1994 has financed 20 projects for a total of $307 million. Over $540 million has been provided in joint and parallel cofinancing by numerous donor governments.
Trust Fund Highlights
Trust-Funded Initiatives for Climate Change and Post-Conflict Reconstruction
Trust funds are financial and administrative arrangements* that facilitate grant funding of high-priority development needs, including technical assistance and advisory services, debt relief, post-conflict transition, and cofinancing. Trust funds help leverage poverty reduction programs by funding key due diligence activities for development operations, promoting innovative approaches, forging partnerships, and expanding the scope of development collaboration.	.
In fiscal 200 l:t
Total contributions expanded significantly, with increased donor support for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, a new Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) to help poor and vulnerable groups hurt by crisis, a trust fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and major technical assistance and cofinancing projects.
Contributions totaled $2,719 million, comprising $1,450 million from bilateral donors, $1,225 million from multilateral donors, and $44 million from private sector and nongovernmental organizations.
Major contributions were provided by the European Community ($757 million), the World Bank Group ($422 million), Japan ($277 million), and the Netherlands ($235 million).
Contributions to ongoing, global programs financed by Japan and the Netherlands included $93 million for the JSDF, $59 million for the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund, and $60 million for the Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program.
Disbursements totaled $1.85 billion with $988 million attributable to three large programs: HIPC, the Global Environment Facility and the PHRD Fund.
The Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF), established with the objective of mitigating climate change, aims to promote sustainable development, demonstrate the possibilities of public-private partnerships, and offer a "learnlng-by-dolng” opportunity to stakeholders. PCF emphasizes renewable energy and energy efficiency projects that have potential for replication and for reducing climate change at a reasonable cost. PCF investments will be made in transition economies and developing countries following the emerging framework of the Kyoto Protocol for its Joint Implementation and Clean Development Mechanisms, respectively. By October 2000, the PCF had subscribed capital of $145 million from 17 corporate and 6 public sector participants. See www.PrototypeCarbonFund.org. i^j)
Trust funds increasingly support reconstruction and transition In post-conflict countries and regions. Bank-financed trust funds provide credits (on IDA terms) and grants to nonmember countries to support demobilization, help rebuild economies, and develop key Institutions. The Bank has catalyzed additional external donor assistance to increase development impact in post-conflict situations. Special Bank credits and grants for the West Bank and Gaza, East Timor, Kosovo, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia totaled nearly $500 million In recent years, leveraged by an additional $1 billion in grants from the larger donor community.
*	Trust funds are accounted for separately from the Bank's own resources and are defined through formal agreements between the Bank, external donors, and the recipients who receive grant funding.
t The financial information presented for the trust fund portfolio reflects reporting on an accrual basis for contributions to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund, and reporting on a cash basis for contributions to all other trust funds. The differential between contributions reported on an accrual and cash basis totaled $536 million in fiscal 2001,($16) million in fiscal 2000, $233 million in fiscal 1999, and $80 million in fiscal 1998. Disbursements for all trust funds, including the HIPC Trust Fund, are reported on a cash basis.
The World Bank’s Active Portfolio of Projects under Implementation at june 30, 2001
EVOLVING PRIORITIES
The World Bank’s project portfolio of $105 billion at the end of fiscal 2001 comprised 1,553 ongoing projects, nearly a quarter of them in Africa.
Measured in dollars as well as number of projects, the distribution of the portfolio highlights the Bank’s sustained emphasis on investments in people, rural development with an environmental focus, and infrastructure and institution building needed to help countries attract private investment and reduce poverty
The share of the portfolio in the energy as well as the
oil	and gas sectors has fallen sharply over the past five years, reflecting countries’ success in attracting private and other lenders into those sectors and the Bank’s focus on policy and institutional reform Countries with good policy and institutional environments account for a markedly higher share of the portfolio today relative to fiscal 1996 Support for countries' efforts to combat corruption and HIV/AIDS has been mainstreamed and is today more than double what it was in fiscal 1996 The Bank continues to be a leader in providing reconstruction assistance following natural disasters, with growing attention to disaster prevention In the last five years, lending for reconstruction totaled nearly $5 billion, and while difficult to quantify precisely, disaster prevention lending is approaching similar levels Portfolio management by decentralized country office staff has increased significantly, strengthening the Bank’s responsiveness to client needs and improving portfolio health.
TURNING THE PORTFOLIO AROUND: TWO EXAMPLES
Water and Sanitation Sector. Five years ago, about half the Water and Sanitation portfolio was at risk, and problem projects accounted for nearly a quarter of the portfolio. At the end of fiscal 2001, only 15 percent of projects were at risk The radical improvement has resulted from A shift m lending away from public sector utilities that promise reforms and toward utilities that have reformed prior to Bank funding and brought private sector talent into their operations, and The Bank’s adoption of a proactive approach toward problem projects, including quantitative performance targets and regular review and monitoring
Africa Region. Operations in the Africa Region have historically faced above-average risk because of conflict-related cnses, political instability, and weak governance Despite these risks, the quality of the region’s portfolio has improved markedly, as a result of
Linking new lending to resoluuon of outstanding problems, Providing staff with real-time data on portfolio quality, Tackling cross-cutting problems in risky projects through country-portfolio reviews,
Using local staff in country offices to strengthen oversight, and
Facilitating public involvement, awareness, and oversight of the Bank’s portfolio
The Quality of the World Bank’s Operations: Sustained Improvement
Following five years of solid improvement, the development riskiness of the Bank’s portfolio has been cut in half and is now the lowest it has been in many years. As a result, some $16 billion of loans and credits are now better positioned to deliver results Improvements over the five-year period have been broad based, covering virtually all regions and sectors.
Findings of the Bank’s Annual Report on Portfolio Performance include improved relevance of Bank assistance, consulting of stakeholders, attention to likely social and environmental impacts, oversight of fiduciary aspects, collaboration with partners, and focus on results and problem solving. Building on progress and sustaining efforts will be crucial
Chapter 1
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2001
In fiscal 2001 the World Bank intensified its efforts to help countries fight poverty. It accelerated support—jointly with the IMF—to help the world’s poorest countries prepare poverty reduction strategies, thus advancing their eligibility for significant debt relief. It heightened collaboration with global partners around the international development goals to enhance prospects for their achievement and, in particular, to strengthen the fight against HIV/AIDS. And it articulated a new Strategic Framework that clarifies the key strategic directions of the Bank and emphasizes the need to consolidate and build on the significant progress of recent years.
GLOBAL CONTEXT: SLOWING RECOVERY, SLOW PROGRESS ON POVERTY REDUCTION
During 2000, the world economy continued its remarkable recovery from the 1997-98 financial crisis, but momentum faded as the year progressed. GDP growth of developing countries averaged 5.4 percent in 2000, a shade above the previous year. The fastest-growing region was East Asia and Pacific, at 7.5 percent, Sub-Saharan Africa trailed with 2.7 percent growth. South Asia continued on a steady growth path despite a major earthquake in India Accelerated reform also helped growth in Europe and Central Asia’s developing countries, boosted by the rise of Russian oil revenues to a record level, resolving setbacks to financial stability and attracting private investment remain challenges for the region Latin America, on the whole, also recovered well, benefiting from a return to stability of global financial markets. Growth in the Middle East and North Africa continued, but serious challenges include the continued political uncertainty and high unemployment in the region. For the world as a whole, slower growth is expected for 2001.
Progress on poverty reduction has been slow, and the challenge of the international development goals remains immense (see page 4) Prospects for success, in some areas, are improving, however Between 1990 and 1998 the proportion of people living in extreme poverty fell from 29 percent to 23 per-
cent, with China leading the decline. In at least 25 developing countries, infant mortality rates have been declining, putting them within likely reach of the 2015 infant mortality goal. The gaps between girls’ and boys’ enrollments have narrowed. But other data are sobering: estimates show that more than 113 million children remain out of school, 150 million children remain underweight, and maternal deaths average 440 per 100,000 in developing countries (compared with 21 in high-income countries) HIV/AIDS continues to present a formidable obstacle to reaching the goals, although a few countries are beginning to reap successes from prevention programs. And many countries, on present trends, are not on track to halving their poverty incidence by 2015.
FISCAL 2001 ASSISTANCE: FOCUS ON POVERTY, QUALITY
Higher lending volumes and special financing. At
$17.3 billion, new lending in fiscal 2001 was modestly above the previous year’s level for IBRD and IDA combined (table 1.1). The increase resulted from higher IDA lending to Africa, consistent with IDA-12 goals and in particular to respond to the HIV/AIDS crisis, post-conflict situations, and oil price shocks A multicountry, fast-track program for Africa to intensify the fight against HIV/AIDS deserves special mention for its innovativeness as well as scope for scaling up development impact (box 1.1). Overall, new IDA lending focused on investments aimed at reducing poverty, including investments in the social sectors and rural and community-driven development. Demand from IBRD borrowers, particularly in Europe and Central Asia and Latin America, was centered on strengthening financial sectors, investing in people, improving public sector management, and addressing needs in the transport sector. Institution building remained a strong priority. With respect to the number of projects, the year’s total of 225 was about the same as last year, with IDA operations reaching a first-time-ever 60 percent of the total. The average size of operations increased to $77 million in fiscal 2001
Note Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding Please see appendix 10 in volume 2 for detailed IBRD and IDA lending by sector
a To better capture the evolving nature of Bank operations, the Bank's sector classification system is reviewed and changed as appropriate In fiscal 2000, two new sector categories were created (Economic Policy and Private Sector Development) and one sector category was dropped (Industry) Economic Policy comprises operations that support macroeconomic policy, trade, and other economic and institutional reforms It includes structural adjustment operations previously assigned to Multisector and some operations previously assigned to Finance Private Sector Development comprises operations dealing with the business environment, private infrastructure, small scale enterprise, and privatization issues As such, it includes some operations previously assigned to Industry and to Public Sector Management Other operations previously included under Industry have been assigned to the Public Sector Management sector In addition, a few individual operations approved in fiscal 1998-99 were reassigned, including a fiscal 1999 project from Agriculture to Water Supply and Sanitation
b This column shows lending by sector, based on a classification by major loan component The example of a $100 million public sector loan.with components aimed at addressing environmental, financial, and social protection needs, serves as an illustration In the case of loan-by-loan classification, the full amount of the loan appears in the Public Sector Management sector, in the component classification, the full amount is split among the four sectors—Public Sector Management, Environment, Finance, and Social Protection As a result, total lending of $1,882 7 million for Social Protection in the component classification is the sum of all social protection components within loans approved in fiscal 2001
c	Bank lending in fiscal 1998 and 1999 are presented together, the two being exceptional years due to the East Asia financial crisis
d	The data in last year's Annual Report were slightly revised in fiscal 2001
e	Includes $287 2 million in IDA credits to seven countries under the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa, and $40 1 million in	IBRD	loans	to two countries
under the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Initiative, for which the Bank earmarked funding of $500 million and $155 million, respectively, in fiscal	2001
f	Excludes IDA HIPC grants of $75 million to Uganda in fiscal 1998, $154 million to Mozambique in fiscal 1999, and $37 million and	$64 million	to Honduras and
Cameroon, respectively, in fiscal 2001
g Does not include special financing of $104 8 million provided by the Trust Funds for East Timor, Gaza and the West Bank, Kosovo, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
from $69 million the previous year, reflecting several large investment operations. The share of adjustment lending continued to stabilize at about one-third of total lending, significantly down from the fiscal 1999 peak of above 50 percent and approaching the typical adjustment lending shares in the early 1990s (before the financial crisis). In addition, 17 special financing operations were approved for a total commitment of $104.8 million, compared with
12 operations and $96.5 million in fiscal 2000. The beneficiaries were East Timor, Gaza and the West Bank, Kosovo, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Accelerated debt relief. Significant progress was made in fiscal 2001 to provide deeper, broader, and faster debt relief to some of the world’s poorest countries, many of them in Africa, under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative
Box 1.1 The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa
The HIV/AIDS epidemic now poses the paramount threat to development in Sub-Saharan Africa. About 25 million adults and children are living with HIV/AIDS, as estimated by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (December 2000). Some 17 million have already died from the disease, which may be costing the region 0.5 percent to 1.2 percent of per capita growth each year, with losses likely to grow.
In collaboration with partners (see page 103), the Bank launched in September 2000 the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa—the first of its kind. Under MAP, flexible and rapid funding will be committed, on IDA terms, to individual HIV/AIDS projects developed by countries The MAP seeks to dramatically increase access-especially by vulnerable groups—to HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment programs.
Communities and associations of people affected by HIV/AIDS will help design and implement activities and will control resources.
' Countries benefiting from the MAP in fiscal 2001 include Cameroon, Eritrea, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Kenya, and Uganda.
' An initial amount of $500 million covers the first of three phases. Phase 1 (expected to be fully committed by the end of calendar 2001) aims to help as many countries as possible intensify action against HIV/AIDS and cope with the unprecedented burdens of the epidemic. Phases 2 and 3, respectively, will stress mainstreaming and prevention.
The MAP aims ultimately to avert millions of HIV infections, alleviate suffering for tens of millions, and protect the development prospects of entire nations.
framework As of June 30, 2001, 23 countries— compared with 7 a year ago—were receiving debt relief under this framework, amounting to more than $34 billion over time from all creditors. Importantly, debt relief has begun to be delivered within a transparent and comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) framework. PRSPs (discussed on page 30 under “Support to low-income countries”) are developed by countries after national consultations and aim to ensure a nationally “owned” poverty reduction framework for spending resources freed by debt relief. In addition, debt relief is delivered only to countries that have demonstrated the commitment and capacity to use the resources effectively After HIPC (and combined with traditional) debt relief, the 23 countries will'
i Witness a two-thirds reduction in total debt, with debt service payments reduced by about $1 1 billion a year (figure 1 1),
This young boy is one of 8 I million beneficiaries of Mexico's Second Basic Health Care Project, which is bringing modem basic health services to previously excluded rural poor people, especially women and children A Third Basic Health Care Project was approved in fiscal 2001, focusing on increasing equity
J Increase (based on early indications) social expenditures by an average of about $1 7 billion a year during 2001—02, directed toward health, education, HIV/AIDS programs, basic infrastructure, and governance reform, and
i	j Reduce spending on debt service to about 2 percent of GDP—well below the average for developing countries, social expenditures, in comparison, are estimated at about 7 percent
Evolving economic and sector work (ESW).
ESW products numbered about 335 in fiscal 2001, including about 234 analytical reports and some 100
policy notes and other products. In fiscal 2001 formal reports included 62 core diagnostic reports (such as poverty and gender assessments, public expenditure reviews, financial accountability, and procurement assessments), 75 other diagnostic reports (such as institutional and governance reviews, financial sector assessments, social protection reviews, and city development strategies); and 97 regional and country advisory reports. The Africa and Europe and Central Asia regions accounted for the highest share of the year’s ESW ESW provides the basis for the Bank’s policy dialogue with clients. When undertaken in partnership with local institutions, it is also an effective vehicle for building institutional capacity. It underpins the country’s own vision and the Bank’s diagnosis of the country’s development situation; it provides the analytical basis for HIPC and PRSP work in IDA countries; and it plays an important role in middle-income countries—underscored by the Development Committee’s call for stronger analysis of structural, social, and sectoral issues and priorities. ESW helps the Bank develop its Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and formulate and implement effective lending programs. In fiscal 2001 the Bank continued a reform effort to strengthen ESW and fill gaps in the availability of diagnostic reports, particularly in key areas such as public expenditure, procurement and financial management, and structural constraints to growth and poverty reduction.
Multidimensional support for poverty reduction.
Released in September 2000, the Bank’s World Development Report 2000/2001 emphasized opportunity, empowerment, and security as key to reducing multidimensional poverty. Examples of the Bank’s efforts to reflect in its work the report’s conclusions, through lending and nonlending services, include the following-
Lending to fight communicable diseases amounted to over $610 million—twice the average for the past four years, and including over $418 million from IDA; support to combat HIV/AIDS and malaria has intensified, while the Bank is already the largest single source of external support for tuberculosis control in developing countries. Support for education is emphasizing access, quality, and equity, as of June 30, 2001, the Bank has supported 64 active projects worldwide with girls’ education components; 55 of
these projects benefited from IDA financing. Also to benefit the vulnerable, the Bank is not only steadily expanding its social protection portfolio— whose quality is also improving—but also working at the global level, for example with the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations Children’s Fund, to fight child labor.
Working toward a cleaner, healthier environment has entailed extensive global consultations to inform a forthcoming environmental strategy, collaborative efforts to better manage Nile water resources, and more environmentally focused support for the energy, oil and gas, and mining sectors. Other progress to empower people is reflected in collaborative work on the Global Development Gateway—an initiative to make worldwide development knowledge more widely and interactively accessible—as well as using Bank lending to help build countries’ information systems (75 percent of Bank projects have such components)
A wide range of Bank Group services supports private sector development, ranging from investment climate surveys (of places as diverse as East Timor and the Russian Federation) and support for pn-vate provision of infrastructure to catalytic lending and innovative finance, including guarantees A fast-growing area of support is law and justice, where Bank focus has evolved from specific law reform to encompass legal education for the public, anticorruption programs in the judiciary, indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms, and legal aid for poor women.
A new operational policy to guide conflict-related work allows for a more systematic approach, including, in the area of conflict prevention, studies to identify root causes, support for transparent public expenditure management, and varied operational support (for demobilization and reintegration, for example).
Improved development effectiveness. The number of projects considered “at risk” in the Bank’s portfolio has been cut in half over the past five years and is now the lowest it has been in many years. As a result, some $16 billion of loans and credits are better positioned to deliver results to clients. The quality of project appraisal and supervision has also improved substantially; a similar trend is emerging with respect to nonlending services. These results are beginning to be reflected steadily in improved project
outcomes: the independent Operations Evaluation Department (OED) estimates that 78 percent of closed projects had satisfactory outcomes in fiscal
2000,	compared with 73 percent in fiscal 1999 Institutional development and sustainability of results are also improving, slowly but steadily. Particularly noteworthy are quality improvements in the Africa region, which reflect in part IDA’s growing effort to focus new lending on countries with good policy performance The quality of adjustment lending has also improved markedly. Also notable toward ensuring more effective use of aid is the greater attention, Bank-wide, to safeguard and fiduciary policies. Highlights include an improved tracking system, recognizing the potentially high social and environmental costs of noncompliance; efforts to harmonize safeguard requirements across donors, and a steady strengthening of project financial management resulting from systematic efforts to improve governance and cost effectiveness. A growing priority of OED is to strengthen borrowers’ capacity for evaluation.
PRESERVING FINANCIAL STRENGTH TO SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT NEEDS
IBRD net income in fiscal 2001 was $1.5 million, lower than the previous year primarily because of higher provisioning expenses. IBRD retained $618 million out of fiscal 2001 operating income in its General Reserve—lower than in the previous year, when $ 1 1 billion was retained in keeping with IBRD’s strategy to preserve long-term financial strength and support other development needs. As part of its regular financing operations, IBRD raised $ 17 billion in international debt markets in fiscal
2001.	It continued to borrow at favorable costs, in turn enabling low borrowing costs for client countries Funding volume was above the previous year’s level, reflecting financing for loan disbursements and refinancing of debt retirements. IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2001 to ensure uninterrupted cash flow to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2001, the liquid asset portfolio was $24.2 billion.
FORMALIZING THE COUNTRY BUSINESS MODEL AND GLOBAL PRIORITIES
Country business model. "Supporting Country Development World Bank Role and Instruments in Low- and Middle-income Countries"—a paper pre-
More and more people are taking advantage of child health services in Ugandan villages covered by the country's Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project, whose communications component is making a dramatic difference to community participation Here, a child is weighed
pared for the Annual Meetings in September 2000— described the changing paradigm for development assistance and outlined the way the Bank is adapting its approach to better reflect the lessons of experience and respond to new needs for development services. In particular, the paper noted the increasing focus on policies and institutions, the role of the private sector, and country ownership and partnership as articulated in the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF). The paper also formalized the Bank’s results-focused country business model, which is grounded in the country’s own vision of development and diagnostic work on the priorities and constraints for change, and set out in the CAS
Evolving Country Assistance Strategies. In fiscal 2001 the Board discussed 37 CASs, including 8 Transitional or Interim Support Strategies for postconflict economies such as East Timor, Ethiopia, Kosovo, and Sierra Leone. More than ever, CASs are being prepared in consultation with countries and with attention to transparency. Emphasis on disclosure continued, with disclosure of 100 percent of IDA (including “blend”) and 71 percent of IBRD country assistance documents, for an overall disclosure ratio of 87 percent Bank-wide. It is expected
Box 1.2 Scaling Up Results, Targeting the Vulnerable, Building on Success, Supporting Private Enterprise: Illustrations of Projects Approved in Fiscal 2001
Health. The Second National Leprosy Elimination Project (IDA, $30 million) supports national programs in India to improve diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring at the state level, building on its predecessor, under which registered cases nationwide were cut in half between 1993 and 2000.
Rural development. Brazil’s Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project (IBRD, $202 million) will scale up the results of two successful Bank-financed pilots that tested a community-based approach to provide faster access to land by the rural poor, thereby helping raise the incomes of about 50,000 families.
Regional integration. The Regional Trade Facilitation Project (IDA, $110 million)—the first of its kind—will support poverty reduction through private sector-led growth in seven African countries, helping increase credit availability for productive activities and providing startup funds for the Africa Trade Insurance Agency.
Social protection. The Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project and the Emergency Recovery Project (IDA, $400 million) will have a significant impact on reducing poverty in war-torn Ethiopia by helping veterans restart their lives and jump-starting the economy, while also addressing basic needs and scaling up HIV/AIDS-related interventions.
Finance. The Second Poverty Alleviation Micro finance Project (IDA, $151 million) expands rural microcredit in Bangladesh to reach those who have to date been left out or underserved, while also ensuring that microlending will be sustainable into the future; 1 2 million new borrowers and 19,500 microentrepreneurs are expected to benefit.
Education. The Mali Education Sector Expenditure Program (IDA, $45 million) is a 10-year program aimed at increasing gross primary enrollment from about 56 percent in 2000 to 95 percent in 2010, helping Mali’s future ability to respond to competitive market conditions.
Transport. The Third Inland Waterways Project (IBRD, $100 million) will improve market access of, and power supply to, remote inland areas of China's Hunan province and provide more economic inland waterway transport, reducing transport bottlenecks, strengthening institutional capacity, and benefiting nearly six million poor residents.
Natural disasters. The Natural Disaster Management Project (IBRD, $404 million) will help reduce human, economic, and financial costs of natural disasters in Mexico by focusing on recovery and prevention of loss of life and infrastructure damage.
Public sector reform. The Budget Systems Modernization Project (IBRD,
$24 million) wilt modernize and expand Algeria’s capacity for growth by promoting efficient, transparent, and effective governance.
Environment. Russia’s Coal and Forestry Sector Guarantee Facility (IBRD, $200 million) will help foster a better business environment in the coal and forestry sectors and support commercially viable enterprises.
Water supply. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (I DA, $20 million) will expand sustainable water supply and improve sanitation service coverage to over 400,000 of the Republic of Yemen's mostly poor rural population, improving health and freeing girls from water-fetching chores to attend school.
that, after July 1, 2002, each IDA CAS presented to the Bank’s Board would normally be based on a PRSP, which would provide the context for all IDA lending and nonlending activities The Board has already considered a number of CASs based on PRSPs, including Burkina Faso and Uganda. A total of 17 of the year’s CASs were prepared jointly with the IFC, underscoring the importance of private investment to these countries’ strategies While the poverty focus of CASs has been improving, the Bank has been steadily raising the standard for its assistance. Key priorities include good poverty diagnosis, integration of economic and sector work, selectivity in assistance, appropriate sequencing of instruments, and capacity building to monitor PRSP outcome indicators—currently a major challenge Projects approved over the past year attest to the strong poverty focus of Bank assistance (box 1.2)
Support to low-income countries. The Boards of the Bank and the IMF considered Full and Interim PRSPs prepared by 32 countries in fiscal 2001, compared with 12 the previous year. Since their introduction in December 1999, PRSPs have become the principal vehicle for implementing the principles of the CDF in low-income countries. The accelerated preparation of PRSPs (including 29 Interim ones to enable countries’preliminary qualification for debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework) signals progress, but the strong participatory process, still to come in the Full PRSPs, will be crucial. The approach is still in its early stages, linking public actions to priority poverty reduction outcomes will be critical as the process evolves Progress of a different kind—donor coordination— is reflected in the European Union’s decision to base its assistance to the Africa, Caribbean, and Pacific regions on the PRSP framework. Growing adoption of the PRSP approach attests to the expanding acceptance of CDF principles, which emphasize country ownership based on national consensus and strong participatory processes, longterm vision, results focus, and partnership. The Bank’s Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will help implement these strategies On May 31,
2001,	the Board of the World Bank approved a $150 million PRSC for Uganda, the first IDA credit to support the implementation of a country’s poverty reduction strategy as set out in its PRSP
(see page 43) A PRSC for Vietnam was also approved in fiscal 2001.
Support to middle-income countries. With the support of Ministers at the Joint Bank-Fund Annual Meetings in September 2000, the Bank Group created a task force to consider how best to respond to the needs of middle-income countries (those eligible to borrow from IBRD). A clear consensus emerged from extensive consultations with client countries, shareholders, and other partners the Bank Group has a crucial role to play in middle-income countries With nearly 80 percent of people who live on under $2 a day residing in middle-income countries, any plan for successful global poverty reduction will require the Bank’s continued active engagement in these countries The Bank’s global reach, broad sectoral knowledge, and specific private sector engagement through the IFC and MIGA enable it to provide strong support for sound policies and institutions, its financial support "crowds in” private capital and reduces vulnerability to market volatility, and, through its work in middle-income countries, the Bank gains valuable experience, informing its work in low-income countries The task force highlights, however, the need for a catalytic and selective role, with the Bank focusing on assistance that others cannot or will not provide. At the Joint Bank-Fund Spring Meetings in April 2001, Ministers welcomed the task force-based proposals put forward by the Bank noting that they would support more structured and streamlined Bank-Fund cooperation. Proposals included the strengthening of the Bank’s analysis of the country situation, including expanding, in concert with its partners, support for local capacity building, a deferred drawdown option for adjustment loans to reforming countries, and a more systematic and developmental role for adjustment lending.
Support for global public goods. The 2000 Annual Meetings also set near-term priorities for Bank engagement in global collective action- communicable diseases, environmental commons, economic governance and financial stability, trade and integration; and the information and knowledge revolution. The Bank has since moved forward in each of these areas, whose links to poverty reduction are strong Progress has consisted of sharpening strategy, work-
ing with global partners on major initiatives, and integrating efforts into country-level work An urgent task at the international level is to develop solid estimates of financing requirements for each priority area That pending, the Bank is relying on innovative IBRD and IDA program and project lending to support strong national programs (such as the MultiCountry HIV/AIDS Program) as a basis for later global approaches, while also exploring a limited expansion of IDA's grant capability and a restructuring of the Bank’s Development Grant Facility The Bank's approach toward global public goods is based on careful selectivity in priorities and partnerships, and measured deployment of resources.
Sector Strategy Papers (SSPs). SSPs help organize the Bank’s work on global priorities such as disease eradication or the environment. They are a launching point for promoting public action at the global level, pulling together global programs and partnerships, and providing incentives for client countries to take action. More generally, SSPs help shape the Bank’s approach and activities in a given sector or thematic area to enhance impact on poverty reduction and growth SSPs also lay out strategic options for sector and thematic areas identifying aspects of relatively weak country performance for priority attention They are developed with broad stakeholder consultation, and their implementation is regularly monitored. In fiscal 2001 the Board reviewed three SSPs, including “Strategy for the Financial Sector,” '‘Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance A World Bank Strategy," and “Social Protection Sector Strategy. From Safety Net to Spring Board ”
A CHANGING WORLD BANK
Compact Assessment. In fiscal 2001 the Bank conducted an assessment of the Strategic Compact, launched in April 1997 between the Bank and its shareholders to renew itself to become more effective, with $250 million in additional administrative resources over a three-year period. The Compact was ambitious in its time frame and scope, the challenge was heightened by unanticipated external developments—financial crises, post-conflict situations, and natural disasters—as well as the rising demands of partnership linked to the CDF-PRSP-HIPC work in many countries
Examples include learning and innovation loans, adaptable program loans, and IDA guarantees; single currency loans, and e-bonds, and institutional and governance reviews, and financial sector assessments
Significant progress has been made, in a relatively short time. Under the Compact, the Bank was to refuel business activity, refocus the development agenda, retool its knowledge base, and revamp institutional capabilities. Important gains have been made in improving operational quality and expanding the Bank’s portfolio of products and services (table 1.2) A changed Bank has meant making “Spring Meetings” documents publicly available for the first time, well-coordinated support from the Bank Group, including the IFC, for small and medium enterprises; and speeding up response to clients during periods of crisis through a greater
presence in the field. The Bank has also delivered on its commitment to return in fiscal 2001 to the fiscal 1997 net administrative budget in real terms.
The efficiency gains foreseen under the Compact have proved more difficult to realize. A number of new priorities and processes have increased the complexity and—m the short term— the cost of doing business. Supervision costs are higher because of the greater emphasis on quality as well as compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies; the costs of preparing CASs have risen in step with growing attention to stakeholder consultations and disclosure; and the introduction of services
Higher fiduciary and safeguard standards
Increased emphasis on poverty reduction in Africa and South Asia
Increased funding for poverty assessments, public expenditure reviews, financial accountability as well as procurement assessments, and other key diagnostic work
Continued support for PRSP preparation in low-income countries and policy dialogue in middle-income countries
Strong focus to maintain quality standards, attention to monitoring and evaluation
Finance, administrative, and corporate services expected to decline as cost efficiency achieved
such as PRSP support and Financial Sector Assessments has entailed significant added cost (see figure 1 2) The Bank has also faced higher costs in terms of the stress levels of staff, who played a crucial role in the progress made under the Compact. Lessons from the Compact experience are reflected in the Strategic Directions Paper (SDP) as well as in the Bank's administrative budget for fiscal 2002, approved at the end of fiscal 2001 (see table 1 3).
World Bank Institute (WBI). A major emphasis of the “new’’ Bank is empowerment of people through knowledge and capacity building. Renewed during the Compact period, WBI is an important contributor to this objective (others being the Bank's research and advisory services, its thematic networks' "communities of practice,’’ and information technology-based efforts) WBI facilitates learning on development issues for staff as well as Bank clients—including policymakers, ministry staff, academics, and increasingly, parliamentarians, journalists, the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and other segments of civil society. At the end of fiscal 2001, WBI was reaching 48,000 participants annually in client programs in about 150 countries through nearly 600 learning activities. Programs continue to be scaled up through distance learning, global knowledge networks, and extended partnerships, and by harnessing the newest learning technologies Over the past year WBI developed an Attacking Poverty Program aimed at building national capacity to prepare and implement the PRSP process WBI programs arc having an impact, as seen in these examples
l' A year-long anticorruption program in Paraguay (cosponsored by the U S. Agency for International Development) culminated in an action plan approved by the country’s president, to be implemented by the government and civil society
□	An independent evaluation has shown that students of the World Links Program, which links 100,000 students across 27 countries, have acquired new skills, knowledge, and attitudes— which explains growing demand from such countries as Peru, Senegal, Sri Lanka, and Turkey for scaled-up assistance.
[J As an outcome of a PRSP forum in Cote
d’Ivoire, elected officials and civil society representatives of eight participating country delegations created regional networks to facilitate consultations on their poverty reduction efforts L j In an early example of WBI’s “wholesaling" policy, the Administrative Staff College of India regularly offers—now on its own—a course on resettlement policy originally designed jointly with WBI
Figure 1.2 Unit Cost of Operational Processes
(thousands of dollars)
Development impact. The Strategic Compact’s ultimate aim was to improve development outcomes. Clear gains are emerging In the areas of human development, institutional strengthening, and postconflict assistance, for example, the Bank has helped
, In Ethiopia, to improve access by four million people to health and sanitation facilities, and access by 600,000 children—half of them girls— to school,
r. In Senegal, to advance prospects for more than halving the female illiteracy rate to 30 percent by 2005,
l In Brazil, to achieve a 38 percent drop in the number of AIDS-related deaths since 1993; i ; In Mexico, to reduce the number of people with no health coverage from 10 million to 1 5 million,
^ In some Caribbean countries, to reduce telephone and Internet charges by up to 50 percent; i ; In Guatemala, to streamline the country’s financial management system and make its budget available online,
' ^ In Poland, to make corruption a high-profile issue,
:	In Tunisia, to cut the public share of hospital
financing from 69 percent to 35 percent,
; In Rwanda, to return to normal social and economic life some 1.3 million refugees of the civil war and to strengthen the country’s economic recovery,
1	. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, to create 100,000 jobs through support for microcredit, following the brutal war of the early 1990s,
L! In East Timor, to set up 400 village development councils under a project that is already funding over 500 subprojects selected by the communities themselves
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Strategic Framework. Aimed at building on the progress made under the Compact, a Strategic Framework Paper and an SDP were presented to the Board in fiscal 2001 (see page 9) The papers reiterate the Bank’s mission of fighting poverty, with the international development goals representing a prime commitment They set out the two inter-related pillars that will underpin Bank assistance to countries and at the global level building the climate for investment, jobs, and sustainable growth, and empowering poor people to participate in develop-
ment The SDP emphasizes a catalytic role coupled with the need for selectivity along three dimensions—within countries, across countries, and for global programs The Bank will articulate in the CAS its selectivity within a country, use income, poverty, and performance as the key criteria for selectivity across countries, and be guided by corporate and global public goods priorities at the global level In addition, the papers center assistance to low-income countries on CDF-based poverty reduction strategies as well as debt relief and post-conflict needs, while clarifying the Bank’s role in middle-income countries and at the global level
Role of partners. The strategy papers emphasize the central role of collaboration with partners at the country, as well as global, level. Closely involving client governments, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral and bilateral partners at all stages and levels of country assistance—policy dialogue, formulation of Bank CASs, and design and implementation of lending and nonlending services—has become the norm. Collaboration with major institutional partners, such as the IMF and the United Nations (U N.), has intensified. Operational cooperation and coordination with multilateral development banks (MDBs) has advanced significantly, and several technical working groups are launching efforts to promote coherence m approaches and harmonization of policies and procedures (on matters ranging from environmental assessments and financial management to corruption and gender). For global public goods, strategic partnerships with national governments, civil society, international organizations, bilateral donors, and the corporate sector have become fundamental to the Bank’s engagement. In many arenas, joint work with U N agencies, the IMF, and MDBs is crucial Important examples are the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization focusing on prevention of communicable diseases, the Financial Stability Forum helping to prevent and manage financial crises, the Prototype Carbon Fund that addresses climate change issues, the Global Development Gateway aimed at increasing access worldwide to development knowledge, and work with the World Trade Organization and other partners on integrating least developed countries into the multilateral trade system.
Future Directions. For all the collective progress noted in this report, the world has far to go to win the fight against poverty. The Bank Group has an important role to play Core assets are its financial strength, experience and knowledge, global reach,
independence that enables objectivity, ability to integrate the major elements of sustainable development, and capacity to deliver services and resources to countries. Going forward, the Bank will maintain its global diagnostic capacity across the whole range of developmental sectors, while being much more selective in its areas of implementation capacity. Increasing effectiveness will continue to be a priority, built around a strong quality culture. Country focus will dominate Bank assistance, complemented by carefully selected cross-border and global issues. Measuring the Bank’s performance—particularly difficult in areas such as policy support and capacity building—will also be important, as will be the transparent reporting of results.
As laid out in the Strategy Framework Paper, Bank assistance will emphasize governance as well as institutional and policy structures, including the regulatory framework for infrastructure, to create a positive investment climate—key to expanding jobs and achieving sustainable growth. It will equally emphasize the need to invest in people and empower them to participate in development, in part through community-driven development. Building poor people’s assets, promoting gender equality, and protecting the most vulnerable will all be central to the poverty reduction effort. Investment and adjustment lending will both be set in the context of a sound program of policy and institutional development, capacity building, and strong government commitment.
Partnership, based on institutional comparative advantages will be key to progress at the country,
regional, and global levels. There is now unprecedented consensus worldwide on what is needed for poverty reduction. The Bank has called for a “compact” between rich and poor countries, with each doing its part. Rich countries need to increase market access to developing countries’ exports, and provide debt relief and new concessional finance for the poorest countries; developing countries, for their part, need to ensure sound policy and institutional environments to promote growth as well as the effective use of aid, making sure also that the benefits of growth reach poor people. The CAS will continue to spell out the Bank’s focused business strategy in support of a country’s program, working in partnership with governments and together with the IMF, MDBs, the U.N., bilateral agencies, the private sector, and civil society. The IDA-13 Replenishment, which is expected to be decided by the end of calendar 2001, will crucially guide the Bank’s efforts going forward; IDA donors (table 1.4) have been considering ways to increase aid effectiveness. Collaboration with the IMF will continue to be paramount. The agenda with MDBs includes harmonizing operational policies and division of labor on countries’ social and structural issues. Division of labor on global public goods will be the shared challenge in work with the U.N. The Bank will be flexible, explicitly stepping back where another partner’s comparative advantage is clear.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank’s general operations; they perform their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares, the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit and guarantee proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the Bank’s general operations. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an Annual Report (this report) on the Bank’s operations and policies as well as other matters Their oversight responsibility covers all Bank policies and activities, including approval of all lending and guarantee operations and the annual budget In shaping Bank policy, the Board of Executive Directors (the Board) takes into account the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank’s operational experience In this regard, an important role is played by the Operations Evaluation
From left to right Andrei Bugrov, Girmai Abraham (seated), Finn J&nck, Balmiki Prasad Singh, Neil F Hyden, Jean-Claude Milleron (seated), Matthias Meyer, Rosemary Stevenson* (seated), Terrie O'Leary, Philippe M Peeters, Bassary Toure, Moises Pineda (seated), Pieter Stek, Jan Piercy, Helmut Schaffer, Jaime Ruiz (seated), Mario Soto-Platero, Mohamd Kamel Amr*. Ahmed Sadoudi (seated), Franco Passacantando, Yahya Abdulla M Alyahya, Yuzo Harada (seated), Zhu Guangyao, Abdul Aziz Mohd Yaacob
*	Alternate Executive Director
Department (OED), which is accountable directly to the Board to perform professional evaluations as set out in OED’s Board-approved polices, strategies, and work program. OED provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations. During fiscal 2001 Executive Directors regularly met at Bank headquarters to carry out their responsibilities. Directors also serve on one or more of five standing committees Audit, Development Effectiveness, Budget, Personnel, and Executive Directors'Administrative Matters The committees help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices
Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors also periodically visit borrowing countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide range of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, government officials, nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs), the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. In fiscal 2001 Directors visited Bhutan, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Latvia, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Uganda Directors also play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings of the joint Bank-Fund Development Committee. In fiscal 2001 the Development Committee addressed the World Bank’s strategy in middle-income countries, poverty reduction and global public goods, assistance to post-conflict countries, and a number of the issues discussed below. (For more detail, see appendix 12 in volume 2 of this Annual Report.)
STRATEGIC ISSUES
Major areas of Board emphasis during fiscal 2001 are highlighted below.
Strategic Framework. During fiscal 2001 management presented the Executive Directors with several papers on the strategic directions for the Bank Group for the fiscal 2002-04 period, including the Strategic Framework Paper, the Strategic Compact Assessment, and the Strategic Directions Papers for the Bank and the IFC The Board reviewed the proposals, expressing strong support for increased selectivity in Bank activities to help member countries achieve the international development goals as a means to address more efficiently the central goal of poverty reduction. They also discussed several important policy papers—for example the Bank’s middle-income country strategy
Bank Group’s role in poverty reduction. The
Board continued to closely monitor implementation of the Bank Group’s poverty reduction mandate. Executive Directors reviewed a number of poverty-related reports, including a paper on the operational implications of the World Development Report 2000/2001 on attacking poverty, and the annual Poverty Progress Report The Board also focused considerable attention on implementation of the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative for debt relief to low-income countries, as well as the related Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) and Interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs) designed to ensure stronger links between debt relief and poverty reduction Directors considered 28
HIPC documents (covering 23 countries) under the enhanced framework (comprising 10 Preliminary, 16 Decision Point, and 2 Completion Point documents), and stressed the importance of full burden sharing by all creditors.1 They also reviewed 3 PRSPs and 29 I-PRSPs, and expressed appreciation for the tangible progress made in implementation of the PRSP process They suggested several areas for improvement, including better alignment of Bank assistance with countries’ own strategies and their implementation capacities. The Board also approved the first two Poverty Reduction Support Credits to Uganda and Vietnam In addition, the Board reviewed papers on tracking poverty-related spending in HIPCs, and discussed the impact of debt reduction on long-term debt sustainability The Board also discussed a number of sector strategy papers designed to help define the Bank’s role in poverty reduction at the sector level, including strategies for reforming public institutions and strengthening governance, social protection, and the financial sector
Country programs. Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and the principles underlying the Comprehensive Development Framework and PRSPs continued to guide the Bank Group’s work at the country level. During the fiscal year the Board considered 37 CASs and related CAS products Directors commended the greater focus on poverty reduction as the overarching goal, as well as the increasing use of consultative processes in preparing CASs. They also stressed the importance of the Bank’s increasing use of partnerships and selectivity at the country level.
Global programs and partnerships. Participation by the Bank in global initiatives and partnerships has increased significantly in recent years In fiscal 2001 the Board discussed a framework for managing global programs and partnerships to reinforce country-level poverty reduction efforts. It reviewed several
1 Decision point The point at which the international community agrees—for countries with unsustainable debt levels and a solid record on economic reform and poverty reduction programs—on the amount of relief needed to reduce outstanding debt to a sustainable level Multilateral creditors, including IDA, begin providing significant "interim assistance" beginning immediately at the decision point
Completion point The point at which all creditors provide, unconditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed to at the decision point The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country's PRSP
reports on global public goods Executive Directors confirmed five priority areas for Bank engagement communicable diseases, environmental commons, economic governance and financial stability, trade integration, and information and knowledge. They also discussed several initiatives within these priority areas, such as the Bank’s work with the IMF to strengthen the international financial architecture, with particular emphasis on the integrity of financial markets and the implementation of standards and codes. The Board discussed the Development Grant Facility, which provides grant financing for several of these initiatives, including activities relating to HIV/AIDS The Board has also been involved in preparations for the United Nations High-Level Event on Financing for Development In addition, the Board remained focused on the Bank’s engagement with civil society and NGOs, whose role in the discussion of development issues has become more pronounced
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibility on behalf of its shareholders, in part through its Audit Committee. The Committee reviewed its terms of reference to reflect the evolving duties and responsibilities of audit committees in an ever more complex and risky environment The Committee advises the Board on financial risk management and other governance issues to facilitate Board decisions on policy issues.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
Following review by the Budget Committee, Executive Directors approved an administrative budget, net of reimbursements, for fiscal 2001 of $1,442.2 million This total budget included an allocation of $146 9 million for the Development Grant Facility The administrative budget was below the
level agreed on at the outset of the Strategic Compact despite increased demands on the Bank that had not been anticipated at the time of the Compact In June 2001 the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $1,589 7 million for fiscal 2002
INSPECTION PANEL
The Board created an independent Inspection Panel in 1993 to address more closely the concerns of people affected by Bank projects by ensuring that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures in the design, preparation, and implementation of projects Any group of individuals believing that they may be harmed by a Bank-supported project may ask the panel to investigate complaints that such harm stems from the Bank’s failure to abide by its policies and procedures. The Executive Directors decide, on the recommendation of the Panel, whether an investigation will take place
In fiscal 2001 the Board considered the Panel Investigation Report and the Bank Management recommendations on the Qinghai component of the China Western Poverty Reduction Project No further Board action was taken after the Chinese government announced that it would undertake and finance the Qinghai component entirely with its own resources and on its own terms, as it could not accept additional conditionality The Board approved and the Panel conducted two other investigations of projects in Kenya and Ecuador that looked at application of the Bank’s policies on environmental assessment, consultation with or participation by local people, and Bank supervision In both cases, the Board approved management's recommended actions in response to the Panel’s investigation reports The Panel received two new requests for inspection concerning the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project and the Coal India Environmental and Social Mitigation Project
Addressing the Social, Institutional, and Economic Dimensions of Poverty
In fiscal 2001 the World Bank intensified efforts to address many of the social, institutional, and economic issues underlying poverty. In close partnership with the IMF, it accelerated implementation of a country-owned approach to development that firmly links poverty reduction to debt relief and concessional lending It also promoted good governance and effective public institutions—both critical for sustained poverty reduction In addition, the Bank is helping developing countries pursue gender equality and integrate into the global economy, while working at the global level to strengthen the international financial architecture
Much Bank lending to support improved economic management, policies, and institutions falls under the umbrella of adjustment lending Adjustment lending promotes sustained growth and poverty reduction by supporting countries’ efforts to undertake structural and social reforms (see table 3 1, and table 8 14 in About the World Bank).
ACCELERATING SUPPORT FOR POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGIES
In December 1999 the Bank and the IMF launched the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
Poverty has many faces It is hunger or homelessness It is being sick and not being able to see a doctor It is fear for the future, living one day at a time And it is not having power, representation, or freedom
Program to accelerate poverty reduction in low-income countries PRSPs provide the basis for debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and for concessional Bank and Fund lending They identify key obstacles to poverty reduction and lay out a plan to overcome those obstacles, with mechanisms to monitor progress The country-driven nature of PRSPs is the program’s most notable feature the strategies are produced by the countries themselves in broad consultation with civil society and poor people—marking an important shift in culture for the Bank and the Fund. (See box 3 1 )
The PRSP Program gained considerable momentum in fiscal 2001 A total of 29 countries presented Interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs), in many cases to qualify for preliminary HIPC debt relief. In addition, 3 countries presented their first Full PRSPs in fiscal 2001 Over the past year, the Bank has sought to better align its country assistance with countries’ visions and priorities as laid out in PRSPs The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) was introduced in fiscal 2001 to support an IDA-eligible
country's policy and institutional reform program to help implement its poverty reduction strategy (box 3.2). The PRSC is grounded in the principles of the Comprehensive Development Framework and the international development goals It is derived from the PRSP, based on the Country Assistance Strategy, and underpinned by suitable analysis—environmental, social, structural, and fiduciary. Over time, it is expected to become an important vehicle of IDA financial support to low-income countries with strong programs, anchoring the Bank’s overall support for their poverty reduction strategies
The PRSP approach is still at an early stage.
The process was conceived as a broad framework for engaging domestic stakeholders and external development partners, while providing a vehicle for improved aid coordination Regional development banks, United Nations development agencies, most bilateral donors, the European Union, and many nongovernmental organizations have indicated support for the approach and an intention to work with countries in the PRSP process At the same time, the process entails steadfast endeavor over the long term Only when countries reduce poverty—an impact that can be observed only over a number of years—can PRSPs claim success.
FULFILLING PROMISES OF ENHANCED DEBT RELIEF
Fiscal 2001 was an important year for the HIPC Initiative. Building on enhancements in September 1999 emphasizing deeper, broader, and faster debt relief and stronger links to poverty reduction, debt relief was committed for an additional 16 countries Benin, Cameroon, Chad, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, and Zambia As a result of the HIPC Initiative, the 23 countries that have reached their decision points1 under the enhanced framework will receive more than $34 billion in debt service relief over time from all creditors. This amount is equivalent in net present value (NPV) terms to nearly half of their total stock of external debt In combination
1 Decision point The point at which the international community agrees—for countries with unsustainable debt levels and a solid record on economic reform and poverty reduction programs—on the amount of relief needed to reduce outstanding debt to a sustainable level Multilateral creditors, including IDA, begin providing significant "interim assistance" beginning immediately at the decision point
Box 3.2 The Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit
On May 31, 2001, the Board of the World Bank approved a $150 million PRSC for Uganda to support the implementation of the country’s poverty reduction strategy set out in Uganda’s PRSP. The PRSC is the first of a planned series of three World Bank operations to support Uganda’s medium-term development and reform program. The President’s Report for the Uganda PRSC has been disclosed and made publicly available at the World Bank’s InfoShop.
The Uganda PRSC, the first IDA credit supporting the implementation of a PRSP, supports policy and institutional measures in the government’s strategy, with a focus on improving public service delivery through (1) efficient and equitable use of public resources, (2) improved governance through crosscutting public sector reforms, and (3) improved access to and quality of education, health care, and water and sanitation services. The PRSC builds on a broad range of economic and sector work carried out in Uganda—including household surveys, an enterprise survey, surveys to assess public service delivery and corruption, and diagnostic reports such as the Country Financial Accountability Assessment and Country Procurement Assessment. It supports the government’s anticorruption action plan and helps to create an effective incentive system to improve service delivery.
The participatory process used to develop the government’s poverty reduction strategy that underpins the PRSP Program broadened the country’s ownership of the reforms, and a large number of partners are ready to support their implementation. The multisector, programmatic approach promotes Uganda’s ownership of its poverty reduction and public expenditure program and collaboration among local and external partners—with Bank support through the PRSC focused on policy and institutional reform measures with the highest poverty impact in those areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage. In addition, the approach helps reduce transaction costs in delivery of external assistance, strengthen budgetary institutions, and align external support for service delivery reforms with Uganda’s budget cycle, which is an essential ingredient for sustained institutional reform and poverty reduction.
with other sources of debt relief, their total outstanding debt is projected to fall by more than two-thirds.
The year’s considerable progress was enabled by the intense efforts and dynamic cooperation of HIPC governments, official creditors, and civil society from around the world The relief packages for the 23 countries were developed with country authorities and approved by the Bank and IMF Boards of Executive Directors in less than 16 months.
As a result of the enhanced HIPC Initiative assistance, the annual public debt service burdens of the 23 countries over the next three years will be cut by roughly $1.1 billion, equal to 1 2 percent of GDP. As a share of government revenues, debt service will fall from 28 percent before HIPC relief to about 13 percent in 2001-02, freeing up resources for identified poverty reduction priorities, including social sector expenditures. Debt service payments will be reduced to about 2 percent of GDP, in comparison with 7 percent of GDP that these countries will be spending on social investments.
Notwithstanding this progress, much work remains to be done to ensure the long-term sustainability of HIPCs By delivering debt relief sufficient to reduce a country’s level of debt in NPV terms to either 150 percent of exports or 250 percent of government revenues at the decision point, the HIPC Initiative provides a robust basis for long-term debt sustainability. However, a permanent exit from debt rescheduling can only be achieved if the underlying causes that contributed to the debt problem are addressed. Hence, debt sustainability depends not only upon the absolute level of debt, but also upon a comprehensive set of policies that lead to poverty reduction and economic growth
REFORMING PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND STRENGTHENING GOVERNANCE
Good governance and strong public institutions are increasingly seen as critical for development effectiveness. More and more, the focus of Bank assistance is on helping countries to design and implement good policies themselves A new strategy, “Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance,” was published in November 2000, key new directions include emphasis on “bottom-up” empowerment and longer-term Bank lending to allow time for institutional reform
Among governance issues, public expenditure management has emerged as a high-priority area. Effective public spending is crucial for poverty reduction, and strong public expenditure management systems are essential to ensure that development assistance is utilized as intended The Bank, with partners, is working on an integrated approach to improving the quality of expenditure management in poor countries
Since 1997 anticorruption activities have been increasingly integral and important components of the Bank’s public sector management portfolio, which represented 12 percent of the Bank’s commitments in fiscal 2001 Increasingly, efforts are aimed at not only assessing the quality of governance but also offering deeper insights into government performance and institutional arrangements.
PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY
In fiscal 2001 the Bank published a major policy research report, Engendering Development—Through Gender Equality in Rights, Resources, and Voice The main findings of the report—which benefited from extensive consultations with civil society, academia, and donors—place gender at the center of the Bank’s work on poverty reduction. The report shows that gender equality helps lower infant and child mortality, improve nutrition, and lower fertility rates, it is also associated with lower HIV/AIDS prevalence rates, less corruption in government, higher economic productivity, and faster growth—outcomes not traditionally linked to gender equality.
With strong empirical evidence that gender inequalities tend to slow development, the Bank has begun drafting a revised strategy for better integrating gender into its assistance. Several regional consultations, including with client governments, international agencies, and civil society, are helping to inform this process Priorities are converging on diagnosing gender-related barriers, creating gender-inclusive consultations, and working with country and external partners to identify and support appropriate action.
HELPING COUNTRIES USE TRADE FOR DEVELOPMENT
Trade plays an important role in growth—and therefore poverty reduction The Bank’s three-pronged approach comprises analysis ol impediments to
trade, advocacy of better trade policies that support development, and advice to policymakers. In fiscal
2001	the Bank engaged in research and dissemination of studies demonstrating the crucial importance of opening developed-country markets to goods from developing countries. The Bank is also helping developing countries use the multilateral trading system more effectively through policy analysis, training, and a handbook for trade negotiators A new sourcebook of information on trade aims to help client countries prepare PRSPs. In addition, two ongoing research programs, on general trade policies and agriculture, provide assistance to countries in identifying priorities for reforms at both the national and multilateral levels
STRENGTHENING THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL ARCHITECTURE
The term “international financial architecture” refers to the financial and institutional arrangements that are critical to help countries avoid and mitigate crises, integrate into the global economy, and develop successfully The Bank’s role in this area has three dimensions ensuring that developing country perspectives are brought to bear on discussions on international norms and governance, helping developing countries integrate into the international
economic and financial system, and diagnosing the social and structural obstacles to successful development as a basis for Bank assistance
The Bank has been working closely with the IMF on initiatives that will help developing countries benefit from the global economy The Financial Sector Assessment Program identifies financial system strengths and vulnerabilities (page 57). Under the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) Program, the Bank prepares assessments in its traditional areas of expertise, ROSCs summarize the extent to which countries observe certain internationally recognized standards that can help improve economic policymaking and strengthen the international financial system In fiscal 2001 146 ROSC assessments were completed, 94 of which were published. The Bank has also collaborated with the IMF and other partner organizations to develop a set of principles and guidelines for effective insolvency and creditor rights systems In fiscal 2001 the Board and the Development Committee agreed that the Bank would, with partners, carry out a series of experimental country insolvency assessments under the ROSC Program A third area of collaboration relates to preparation of studies on external debt management that will help construct a set of core principles for sovereign debt management
Two million children die every year from vaccine-preventable diseases. About three million people lost their lives in the year 2000 from HIV/AIDS Many people living in poverty lack basic health and education, are vulnerable to crises, and have little personal income or savings The world’s human development needs are staggering.
The World Bank remains the largest external financier of human development programs It recognizes that healthy and educated people are the backbone of sustainable economic growth and central to any strategy for achieving the international development goals. Through lending and nonlending services, it helps countries invest in and provide social safety nets for their people—efforts that help alleviate some of the worst consequences of poverty while increasing people’s chances to improve their own well-being In fiscal 2001 new lending commitments for education, health, and social protection amounted to $4 4 billion (figure 3 1) Nonlending services ranged from analytical work and sharing of best practice to support for preparation of people-focused poverty reduction strategies and considerable work at the global level, with multiple partners, to intensify the fight against communicable diseases in particular.
The Bank also helped clients better integrate human development concerns into overall poverty reduction efforts in fiscal 2001. The first Poverty Reduction Support Credit provided Uganda interest-free, medium-term multisector support for delivery of basic education, health care, and water and sani-
Children's attendance at underperformmg rural public schools in Bangladesh has improved dramatically after government efforts to involve nongovernmental organizations in the schools' day-to-day operation and maintenance The government is especially emphasizing girls' education, with support from the Bank
tation services, combined with broad public sector reform (see page 43). In addition, education projects addressing health, nutrition, and child labor issues demonstrate efforts to take advantage of synergies across social sectors (box 3 3).
THE EDUCATION AGENDA: FOCUSING ON ACCESS, QUALITY, AND GENDER CONCERNS
Education empowers people, enhances opportunities for greater participation in the labor market, and promotes security. The Bank’s education strategy focuses on efforts proven to make a difference in increasing access to schooling and improving the quality of education. The Bank has also committed to building human capacity for the knowledge economy A key thrust is to help countries eliminate gender disparities in primary and secondary education by 2005
At $1 1 billion, Bank lending for education in fiscal 2001 was 1.5 times its fiscal 2000 level. The increase reflects the Bank’s commitment—together with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, United Nations Development Programme, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and United Nations Population Fund— to scale up its support to countries’ education systems, following the April 2000 World Conference on Education for All (EFA). New projects supported improved access, quality, efficiency, and equity at
Box 3.3 Focusing Resources on Effective School Health (FRESH)
Education for Atl.(EFA) is about getting all children into school and keeping them there. Poor and disadvantaged children are the ones whose participation is most compromised, by ill health and malnutrition. FRESH is a multicountry, multipartner program launched at the April 2000 World Conference on EFA, aimed at forging cross-sectoral linkages between education and health sectors. There are now 22 projects in the Africa region that include a school health and nutrition component using the FRESH framework. Conceived as an effective program to respond to a need, it is beginning to increase the efficacy of other investments in child development, promote better educational outcomes, and achieve greater social equity, white also being cost effective. Highlights of FRESH follow:
■	It helps countries develop the school health components of social sector projects, emphasizing health-related school policies, provision of safe water and sanitation, skills-based health education, and school-based health and nutrition services.
■	It allows an international exchange of information on school health and aims at a common vision of school health among development agencies.
■	It serves to accelerate implementation of HIV/AIDS- and malaria-prevention activities in the education sector.
the primary, secondary, and vocational levels; an area of focus was distance learning. As of June 30, 2001, the Bank had 64 active education projects that address girls’education. For example, innovative and effective programs are being implemented in Bangladesh to benefit secondary school girls, and in India to benefit primary school children. Results are improving: under a project in Guinea, for example, girls’ enrollment increased moderately to 49 percent in 2000-01 from 44 percent a year earlier. The Bank is also helping improve adult—especially female— literacy in several countries.
The Bank also provides varied nonlending support for education. In fiscal 2001 such efforts included analytical work, synthesis of good practice, and capacity building, as well as technical support to help countries prepare Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. Major policy issues identified to be in early need of attention were education finance, teacher training and pay, and coverage (to widen access). Strategic alliances constitute another important form of support. In fiscal 2001 the Bank worked with donor, nongovernmental organization (NGO), and private sector partners to support the Focusing Resources on Effective School Health (FRESH) program in Africa (box 3.3), and with the private sector in particular to
help countries address digital divide and information communications technology issues. Collaboration with the private sector will further benefit from the IFC’s new education strategy, which sees these players as partners in helping alleviate financial constraints, enhance social mobility, improve equity, encourage innovation, and promote effectiveness.
EXPANDING EFFORTS TOWARD A HEALTHY GLOBAL POPULATION
In fiscal 2001 Bank lending to help countries improve health outcomes and health systems performance, and to promote sustainable financing of health care, amounted to $1.3 billion. Significant support was directed toward combating the HIV/AIDS epidemic and other communicable diseases, the former evolving rapidly from a health issue into a formidable development challenge for many countries, especially in Africa (see also pages 27, 67, and 103). The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa and a similar multicountry program for the Caribbean earmarked $500 million and $155 million, respectively, for HIV/AIDS projects that support the scaling up of national prevention and care programs. Total Bank support for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care in stand-alone projects, as well as components in other projects, amounted to $393.6 million in fiscal 2001, and to $851.5 million over the last five years (see footnote e to table 1.1 on page 26). The Bank has also accelerated its efforts to combat malaria and tuberculosis, diseases that are preventable but which are leading killers of poor people.
The Bank also continued to help countries improve nutrition and reproductive health outcomes. Efforts to support nutrition focused on its links to poverty, its impact on learning and productivity, and women’s nutrition. The Bank’s work in reproductive health emphasized the impoverishing effects of unplanned pregnancy, maternal mortality and morbidity, and sexually transmitted diseases. Operational tools, such as practice guides on condom procurement and contracting for delivery of reproductive health services, are helping to improve outcomes. And to arrest the growing health burden posed by non-communicable diseases, the Bank’s work on the economics of tobacco control is helping to demonstrate that taxation, together with nonprice measures (for instance, advertising bans), can reduce smoking and save lives without negatively affecting the economy.
Lending for social protection has grown over the past several years, especially in fiscal 1999 in response to the Asian crisis. Bank support for this aspect of human development encompasses a wide range of activities: Providing training, with the World Bank Institute and to participants worldwide, on how labor market policies and social safety nets can be designed and implemented to reduce poverty and mitigate the risks facing the poor.
Working with the International Labour Organisation and UNICEF to improve child labor data and assess the impact of anti-child labor efforts, and with IFC in its assistance to private sector clients in helping end child labor.
Bringing pension reform tools to Argentina to broaden support of the elderly, to India to devise coverage for the informal sector, and to Senegal to reduce fiscal costs and free up resources for other urgent needs.
Building on the experience of social funds to give communities greater control over the decisions and resources that affect their lives, including emergency responses to natural disasters in Madagascar and Cambodia this year.
Through a pilot social risk and vulnerability assessment in the Latin America and Caribbean region, identifying two extremely vulnerable groups generally unprotected by existing programs: children 0 to 5 years old facing serious health and developmental risks, and youth aged 15 to 24 years old, who are susceptible to dropping out of school, unemployment, violence, and crime.
PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE
Natural or manmade shocks can devastate poor families, robbing them of security, income, and productivity Social protection—risk reduction and mitigation, and coping—measures are essential to making the poor less vulnerable. Such measures seek to help individuals, households, and communities better manage risks, and to provide support to the critically poor In fiscal 2001 these measures helped countries build viable pension systems, develop equitable and inclusive labor markets, eliminate child labor, and rely on social safety nets and social funds to reach vulnerable groups (box 3 4). Lending for social protection continued to grow in fiscal 2001, amounting to $1 9 billion, compared with $1 5 billion last year.
A Bolivian child is immunized Through policy dialogue, lending operations, and partnerships such as the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, the World Bank is intensifying its role in communicable disease prevention and control
The Bank adopted a new Social Protection Strategy in September 2000, prepared following extensive consultations with governments, donors, United Nations agencies, NGOs, and civil society. The strategy benefits from an analysis of vulnerability and proposes reliance on pilot social risk and vulnerability assessments as well as a methodology for social expenditure reviews that would enhance the coverage and impact of social protection programs.
Promoting Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
For the World Bank, promoting sustainable development means improving the linkages between poverty alleviation and the environment It means enhancing food security, the overall well-being of rural people, and the sustainable use of natural resources. And it means ensuring greater civic engagement, particularly by the most vulnerable groups in society
POVERTY AND THE ENVIRONMENT-IMPROVING THE LINKAGE
Environmental degradation poses great harm to developing countries, which suffer annual losses of productivity and natural capital as high as 4 to 8 percent of GDP Over the past year, the Bank’s environmental work has been informed by global consultations with institutions, governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), civil society, and the private sector, through in-country workshops as well as electronic and Web-based discussions. With country and external partners, the Bank seeks to help improve the
Quality of life—by reducing environmental health risks and vulnerability to environmental hazards
Quality of growth—by promoting sustainable management of resources, such as forests, land, and water, as an essential condition for long-term and lasting improvements in people’s well-being L i Quality of the global environmental commons— by pursuing efforts targeted to benefit developing countries and local communities
The Bank is exploring how environmental work can be better designed to improve health outcomes. Analysis in fiscal 2001 with India’s Andhra Pradesh state, in collaboration with the World Health Organisation and donors, examined the effects of poor household environments and lack of basic infrastructure on public health The analysis influenced the state’s priorities in sector planning At a regional level, “Cleaner Transport Fuels for Central Asia and the Caucasus,” a two-year study, resulted in a commitment by authorities to improve fuel quality, monitor vehicle emissions, and establish new regulations
More than 430 million people live in countries with water stress or scarcity, which threatens to increase fivefold by 2050, constraining economic growth and posing a risk to livelihoods and security
Progress was made on the Nile Basin Initiative—a regional partnership that brings together 10 African countries for the sustainable development of Nile waters (see page 93).
The Bank is also working actively at the global level, with multiple partners, recognizing that a large number of environmental concerns cannot be addressed purely at the country level (see page 103 for examples of partnerships in the environment area, and page 21 for a description of the Prototype Carbon Fund) As an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol, the Bank continues to work with the United Nations
Development Programme, United Nations Environment Programme, and United Nations Industrial Development Organization to help countries address global environmental challenges and meet their international environmental obligations.
SUSTAINING LIFE
About 1.2 billion people live on less than $1 a day, and 800 million people go to bed hungry every night, most of them live in rural areas. Slowing and reversing the decline in the natural resource base and improving the productivity of agriculture are imperatives for Bank assistance
The Bank is basing its rural work over the past year on three pillars—enhancing the social and economic well-being of rural people, improving food security, and ensuring the sustainable use of natural resources Supplementing the rural work is the Bank’s attention to the forestry sector, aiming to harness the potential of forests to reduce poverty, integrate forests in sustainable economic development, and protect global forest values. The Bank is involved in partnerships and special initiatives, such as the World Bank-World Wide Fund for Nature Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use, in which the Bank has invested close to $2 million. The Alliance aims at three targets by 2005 50 million hectares of new forest protected areas, a comparable area of existing but highly threatened forest protected areas secured under effective management, and a global target of 200 million hectares of production forest under independently certified sustainable management The Chief Executive Officer Forum on Forest Industry and Conservation—chaired by Mr. Wolfensohn—is a private sector-civil society dialogue process with ambitious objectives for improved forest management and forest conservation
In fiscal 2001 the Bank actively supported efforts to sustain life in rural areas A financial systems support project will increase access to microcredit in poor rural areas in Romania, for example, while support for farmed marshlands, commercial and export agriculture, and agricultural services delivery will help Rwanda on its road to recovery Total lending for rural development rose to $2 2 billion m fiscal 2001, compared with $2 1 billion in fiscal 2000
Efforts at a global level are aimed at scaling up development impact. In fiscal 2001 the Bank
approved a grant to be used through the Global Mechanism of the Convention to Combat Desertification, which will help member countries combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought by engaging civil society and the private sector. Through the GEF, the Bank is also coordinating the Africa Land and Water Initiative Action Program to reverse the rapid trends of land and water degradation in Africa through comprehensive approaches
The Bank is also contributing to efforts to double global food production to feed an additional 2 9 billion people by 2050 With the growing scarcity of land and water, future increases m food supplies have to come from increased productivity (rather than expanded cultivation and irrigation). Supported by 58 public and private sector members, including the Bank, the 16 international research centers that make up the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) are at the forefront of mobilizing modern agricultural science on behalf of the world’s poor and hungry (see page 103) CGIAR technologies support the Bank's rural lending programs to alleviate hunger and poverty, improve rural productivity and raise agricultural incomes, manage natural resources sustainably, and build partnerships with national agricultural research programs. In fiscal 2001 the CGIAR launched a fast-track, participatory reform process toward a revitalized, world-class knowledge network—an agile South-North partnership that works at the frontier of science for the poor and provides public goods research
DEALING WITH THE SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY
Sustainable development also requires addressing the social dimensions of poverty—that poor people must have more say and participate as equal partners The Bank is working to improve the quality of such operations and is developing a methodology for including social dimensions in programmatic lending A review in fiscal 2001 found that good social assessments are helping promote social inclusion, participation, and ownership in Bank operations.
Helping countries affected by conflict—-frequently in partnership with other agencies—is a fast-growing priority for the Bank. People affected by conflict are among the most vulnerable to poverty and ill health, including HIV/AIDS. Conflict and violence remain among the most pressing social and
Box 3.5 Community-Driven Development (CDD): Making Progress Last
economic problems in several parts of the world-
16	of the world’s 20 poorest countries are in—or are just emerging from—conflict, and some 35 others may currently be considered affected by conflict Reconstructing societies after conflict is as much, if not more, about helping people rebuild their lives and meet their social and political security needs as it is about repairing physical infrastructure Given its overall mandate, the Bank hopes to contribute to conflict prevention in two ways, by providing assistance that may help countries become more resilient to eruption of violent conflict, for instance through strengthened capacity to address root causes and trigger issues, and by strengthening its own and partners’ sensitivities to the potential positive and negative impacts of conflicts on development policies and programs. The Bank provides substantial lending and nonlending support to countries emerging from conflict, particularly in Africa, ranging from comprehensive reconstruction packages to small grants from the Post-Conflict Fund Examples include a program to help Eritrean excombatants demobilize and re-integrate into normal life, and another to promote the transition from conflict to peace in Mindanao, in the Philippines
The Bank’s new operational policy, “Development Cooperation and Conflict,” guides its work in countries affected by conflict The Post-Conflict Fund has, since 1997, provided financing for early phases of Bank work in post-conflict situations, with $29 million in grants allocated to more than 30 countries. Over the past year, and with increased bilateral donor financing, this fund has supported projects in East Timor, Eritrea, and Georgia
Cultural identity is another essential part of empowering communities to take charge of their own destinies. The Bank continues to promote, currently through over 80 stand-alone or component operations, efforts that recognize the role of culture in poverty reduction Examples include a cultural heritage management project in Eritrea, and a project in China to upgrade urban infrastructure
SHARPENING THE TOOLS FOR SUCCESS
Strengthening the safeguard system. The Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies are designed to prevent and mitigate undue harm, to people and their environments, that may potentially result from Bank operations. In fiscal 2001 the Bank restated its operational policies to ensure greater clar-
Among the many dimensions of poverty are vulnerability, powerlessness, and exclusion. The World Bank has increased its support for CDD, an approach explicitly identifying a role for communities, society groups, and local people in development efforts. Support for CDD is significant and growing: new commitments amounted to roughly $1 4 billion in fiscal 2001.
The Bank intensified support to all regions for CDD in fiscal 2001. It has undertaken a major effort in 17 African countries to increase funding of community groups and elected local governments to enable their greater participation in policy and institutional reform. Similar efforts are ongoing in East Asia (Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Vietnam), Eastern Europe (Albania, Armenia, Romania), and Central Asia. In South Asia and Latin America, the CDD portfolio continues to expand.
ity and reflect important lessons learned, appointed regional safeguard coordinators, established a safeguards “helpdesk” for staff, and upgraded the safeguards training program.
Participation and civic engagement. The Bank increasingly recognizes that inclusive, participator)' development is key to more equitable and sustainable development Over the past year, it sponsored events on civic engagement and participatory approaches, with participants representing governments and NGOs in about 40 countries Civic engagement is a vital underpinning of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Program and also central to the Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach, which is about transferring funds to community groups so that they can invest in their own development priorities, as well as ensuring poor people’s access to information to enable them to make informed investment decisions and engage in entrepreneurial activities (box 3.5)
Science and technology (S&T). Dealing effectively with urgent global issues—commumcablc diseases, environmental degradation, or food security— requires increased scientific and technological capacity The Bank is looking to S&T to help provide solutions to the most pressing needs of poor people Looking farther out, the Bank aims to improve reliance on knowledge to inform development policies and to build capacity in client countries to generate and use knowledge on their own
Supporting Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Private markets are crucial for economic growth But well-functioning private markets do not always develop spontaneously, they depend on sound institutional and policy environments. Growth, while the best way out of poverty, is not always enough for all to escape it Efforts are needed to ensure effective social safety nets. Responding to these dual considerations, the World Bank's private sector development effort aims to help countries strengthen their investment climates and improve the delivery of infrastructure services to poor people New lending to support private sector development and infrastructure amounted to $5.6 billion, with the active portfolio at $47 3 billion as of June 30, 2001 (figures 3 2 and 3 3).
STRENGTHENING THE INVESTMENT CLIMATE
Economies open to trade and foreign investment flows and bound by the rule of law tend to grow
Opportunity for jobs and entrepreneurial activity in the private sector is critical for the poor Hence the pervasive importance of small informal activity, microfinance services, and small and medium enterprises, such as this one in Azerbaijan
faster (box 3 6) Moreover, foreign direct investment flows to developing countries continue to substantially exceed official aid flows (figure 3 4), although, particularly since the Asian crisis, these flows have been concentrated in a few middle-income and large countries To help more countries attract private investment, the Bank is developing systematic methodologies to identify investment barriers and monitor progress on corrective efforts
In fiscal 2001 the joint Bank-IFC Foreign Investment Advisory Service continued its foreign direct investment surveys in places as diverse as East Timor, Nigeria, and the Russian Federation. Such surveys—showing, for example, that the
absence of land markets, an intrusive tax regime, and excessive foreign currency and customs regulations are impeding foreign investment in the Russian Federation—are helping authorities develop corrective strategies.
The Bank is also strengthening its support for small and medium enterprise (SME) development A joint Bank-IFC SME department formed in fiscal 2000 is blending the Bank’s business-climate policy expertise with the IFC’s transaction and company-level experience. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, IFC’s links with local business have fostered policy dialogue between firms and government Joint Bank-IFC work is promoting the investment climate for mining in low-income countries while encouraging environmental and social initiatives. A fiscal 2001 project in Mozambique, for example, will not only catalyze private investment but also promote private provision of infrastructure, HIV education, and SME support services to local communities. The Bank is also helping build Mozambique’s mining institutions, while improving the efficiency, capacity, employment, and environmental impact of the mining sectors of Poland and Ukraine
SUPPORT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE: STRENGTHENING PRIVATE PARTICIPATION, SERVICES FOR THE POOR
Infrastructure has multiple links to poverty reduction Improved infrastructure can help create jobs and raise worker productivity It can save time and human eflort in transporting water, crops, wood, and other commodities It can also improve health (by reducing indoor air pollution and emissions in urban areas and making clean water available) and education (by expanding access to schools, computers, and lighting)
The Bank provides advice, finance, risk mitigation, and knowledge and information services to help countries improve their infrastructure A major objective relates to the design of sound legal and regulatory frameworks to promote private participation. While lending support (typically to middle-income countries) tapers off as they gain increased access to private finance, it will continue to be important—together with technical assistance for sector reform—in countries where such access remains limited. Subsector highlights for the year are noted below.
Research shows that the top developing country performers in terms of expanded foreign trade and investment (a group including India, China, and Mexico) enjoyed good growth in the 1990s, while the rest of the developing world, as a whole, did poorly.
The result was partly an outcome of trade liberalization, but also depended on factors such as the rule of law and corruption, infrastructure investment, and streamlining of government regulations.
GDP per Capita Growth Rates
(percent)	2
Water. Key priorities were to maximize the developmental impact of ongoing projects and ensure the quality of projects under preparation. For urban water and sanitation projects, this strategy has meant a shift toward competitive private management and financing of such services to improve utility performance and leverage the Bank’s financial products Rural projects are emphasizing greater user involvement, not only in designing and implementing but also m contributing resources to the project.
Transport. Support to the sector in fiscal 2001 reflected the Bank’s dual emphasis on private participation and service provision for the poor Assistance to Brazil helped extend rail concessions to urban railways while ensuring that the benefits of urban mass transit investments reach poor people. In India, the Bank supported the development of the Delhi-Noida Bridge, the country’s first major public-private toll bridge concession A successful road maintenance project using multiyear output-based contracts, just closed in Argentina, offers another
example of Bank support for innovation and private sector involvement, the project is being replicated in Brazil, Chad, Guatemala, and Uruguay
Urban support. Demand for lending and nonlending services has been growing, spurred by a fiscal
2000	sector strategy and the Cities Alliance partnership (see page 104) Many urban projects help regularize land tenure in slums and provide basic infrastructure services Reflecting a new generation of projects aimed at scaling up efforts, a fiscal 2001 project m Mauritania has established a national slum-upgrading program, launched it in five cities, and created a national land-development program for low-income residents.
Telecommunications. The Bank’s support for telecommunications reform continues to lead to dramatic increases in private investment in telecommunications and public access to telephones In Peru, over the course of Bank-supported reforms, investment increased from $28 million of public investment in 1993 to over $2 billion in private investment in 1998, while the share of poor households in Lima with a telephone increased from 1 to 21 percent In Mauritania, the sale of the first mobile license and privatization of the state-owned operator, both with Bank assistance, have set records for telecommunications privatization proceeds in Africa and opened the way to full competition The Bank is also supporting private provision of rural telephone services in Bolivia, Nepal, and Uganda, and community Internet access in Thailand—through efforts patterned after a Chilean model that expanded access from 85 to 99 percent of the population at modest cost to the public
Energy. A new energy business renewal strategy emphasizes market-based efforts to improve access to cleaner energy for poor people, energy tax reform to promote fiscal stability and cleaner fuels, and support for good governance and private sector development in the energy sector Important nonlending work over the year included a review of Nigeria’s petroleum sector and support to India and Bangladesh for use of cleaner fuels for indoor cooking to improve women’s health A new global study on petroleum product taxation will help advise governments on how best to avoid adverse effects on the poor in structuring taxes and subsidies. Joint Bank-IFC support to Pakistan,
meanwhile, for sector reforms, and private participation to develop local gas resources, should save the country large sums on imported oil
PROVIDING GUARANTEES TO INCREASE CLIENTS’ ACCESS TO PRIVATE CAPITAL
In fiscal 2001 the Board approved a partial credit guarantee for the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, which has opened up Bolivia's huge gas potential and expanded energy markets in Brazil Also this year, the Bank issued a $158 8 million IBRD policy-based guarantee for Colombia to help raise $1 billion at a time when U S capital markets were virtually closed to comparably rated borrowers. In April 2001 financing closed for the Haripur power project in Bangladesh, with backing from an IDA partial risk guarantee that played a catalytic role in mobilizing first-time, long-term funding from leading international banks In addition, the Bank introduced guarantee facilities to facilitate export credits to private sector exporters in Africa, and similar support is under preparation to help the Russian Federation rehabilitate its forestry and coal sectors
UPDATING THE BANK’S PRODUCTS AND STRATEGY
In fiscal 2001 the Bank Group engaged in substantial analytical work and consultations toward development of a new private sector development strategy Areas analyzed include the respective roles of the public and private sectors in development and the link between private sector development and poverty reduction
The private sector development and infrastructure portfolio accounts for about 45 percent of the
Ensuring maximum impact from aid projects and government spending is a common concern of donor agencies and develop-ing-country governments. Output-based aid advances this objective by focusing on more efficient, and better-targeted, service delivery rather than on the construction of facilities (as in traditional aid-funded projects).
A number of developing countries already rely on output-based aid approaches:
Subsidies for water services to Chile’s low-income households flow to service providers only when a qualifying household has received and paid for the service.
Bangladeshi field-workers who educate mothers on oral rehydration techniques to reduce infant mortality are paid wages that depend on how well the mothers can remember how to make and administer rehydration solutions.
Peruvian telecommunications companies compete to expand and sustain services in rural areas, on the basis of the smallest level of subsidy required to serve rural consumers.
Bank Group’s total portfolio The content of such work is changing (figure 3.3) It is shifting away from traditional investment lending to a new mix of advisory services (some of it fee-based), phased medium-term lending, and catalytic investment projects increasingly financed by IFC and MIGA with policy support from the Bank. One such example relates to output-based aid (box 3 7) An emerging knowledge product is the Rapid Response Unit Web site (rru.worldbank.org ^§)), which offers clients online “selfhelp” and “helpdesk” services, together with customized fee-based service for small advisory transactions.
Building Strong Financial Systems, Addressing Vulnerabilities
A strong financial system is an essential building block for a sound investment climate, job creation, and sustainable growth. By improving poor people’s access to financial resources, a well-functioning financial system directly supports their climb out of poverty It also spurs growth and reduces the likelihood and cost of financial crises, in this respect, its impact on poverty reduction is indirect—but significant
Financial sector development and reform take time, growth does not occur overnight and recovery is not immediate Some financial systems in East Asia remain fragile Many emerging markets were newly set back after seeing some recovery in 2001, as slower growth in the United States and Japan reduced capital flows to them. New “fragilities’' linked to fiscal and exchange rate issues and sustainability of reform have emerged Turkey suffered a banking crisis and Argentina grappled with the threat of a liquidity crisis after three years of recession As international financial systems integrate further, the international financial community has an even greater stake in working together to address vulnerabilities by promoting international standards and diverse financial systems
REGIONAL AND COUNTRY-LEVEL ASSISTANCE
The World Bank’s regional and country-level activities include a range of lending and nonlending services that respond to the specific needs of different financial systems (see boxes 3 8 and 3 9) Support to low-income countries has focused on strengthening banking systems and increasing access to financial services, in middle-income countries, the Bank has concentrated on deepening capital markets and improving the stability of financial systems
Lending services. Lending for financial sector reform amounted to $2 2 billion in fiscal 2001, compared with $1 8 billion last year Support to Turkey was aimed at helping to restructure and privatize state-owned banks and to empower the bank failure resolution entity In Mexico the Bank continued assistance to strengthen financial system infrastructure It also
A customer uses a newly installed Point of Sale terminal to pay for his groceries at Kalu e Angela, which serves one of the poor neighborhoods of Praia, Cape Verde The store is one of three thousand establishments connected to the electronic interbank payment system under the Financial and Private Sector Development Project, which was implemented from September 1996 to June 2001
Box 3.8 The Central Bank of Sri Lanka: A Homegrown Re-engineering
Redirecting the mission of a central bank, reconnecting it to economic goals, and refocusing core functions is an enormous effort—one that requires the commitment and courage demonstrated by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL). Following extensive discussions over the course of 2000, CBSL staff determined that the bank needed to realign its role within the Sri Lankan economy and better position itself to support the nation’s economic development.
Taking its cue from several forward-thinking central banks, CBSL has decided to shed ancillary functions such as public debt management, management of the Employees Provident Fund, and development financing activities. CBSL staff have refocused the bank’s objectives on price stability and financial sector stability. Management is in the process of restructuring CBSL, automating business activities, and implementing a Voluntary Retirement Scheme—which will result in a 50 percent reduction in staff. CBSL is also committed to dramatic changes in human resource policies, moving away from time-in-grade criteria for staff promotion to a merit-based system.
In )une 2001, the World Bank approved a $30.3 million credit to support this completely “homegrown” model of institutional reform. Success over the long term is very likely because the program was designed by the central bankers themselves.
helped the Central Bank of West African States to put in place a set of regional payment mechanisms, and supported Brazil’s efforts to accelerate and consolidate financial sector reform—and thereby prevent financial crises, which hit the poor hardest. These loans are representative of the Bank’s efforts to help governments reduce the risks to consumers of using financial services; minimize the cost of resolving bad banks (thus enabling other government spending); and strengthen financial system infrastructures, without which growth could not take place.
Nonlending services. A core diagnostic process underlying activities in many countries is the joint World Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program. Joint missions of financial sector specialists help national authorities diagnose vulnerabilities and priorities in their financial sectors and assess observance of select international supervisory and regulatory standards and codes. The IMF's focus on the linkages between the financial sector and macroeconomic performance is complemented by the Bank’s emphasis on economic development and capacity building. Twenty-three country assessments were
undertaken in fiscal 2001, bringing the total to 35 assessments since program inception in May 1999. Follow-up to these assessments, in terms of technical assistance, has already taken place in more than a dozen countries. Another 24 to 30 countries are expected to participate in the program in fiscal 2002.
Technical assistance. Technical assistance has been an important tool for the Bank in helping governments carry out financial system reform. Advice continued to Indonesia to target pressure points for revitalizing economic growth: corporate governance of state banks, debt management, and corporate debt restructuring. In Ukraine, the Bank helped the government clearly define the methods and procedures for the resolution of one of the largest banks in the country, Banka Ukraina. Efforts to deepen and scale up microfinance services in Bangladesh will increase access to finance by up to 1.5 million new microcredit borrowers and will help skilled microcredit entrepreneurs move to higher levels of activities through loans of up to $1,000. By directly targeting women and the poorest segments of the population in rural and urban areas, this project will directly reduce poverty.
SUPPORT AT THE GLOBAL LEVEL
At the global level, the Bank has worked to strengthen the international financial architecture by promoting international standards that respond to the requirements of developing countries, by developing tools to help governments maintain the stability of financial systems, and by offering training programs to build the capacity of supervisor)' and regulatory agencies. Besides the IMF, with whom coordination on financial sector work has increased significantly in the past few years, partners in these efforts include the Financial Stability Forum, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, International Organization of Securities Commissions, and International Association of Insurance Supervisors. The Bank brings its unique perspective to global standard-setting bodies, based on its experience in the field and understanding of the difficulties in implementing financial standards in a developing-country context. For example, the lessons learned from implementing payment system standards in Latin America’s Western Hemisphere Clearance and Settlement Initiative were valuable in guiding the assessment
Box 3.9 Changing Cape Verde’s Financial Landscape: Sustained Reform Pays Off
In the early 1990s Cape Verde’s financial sector was underdeveloped: banks were unprofitable and carried bad loans, the payments system was nonfunctional, and a weak legal and regulatory environment stifled growth. The financial condition of the country’s largest bank, the state-owned Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA), was deteriorating, and the government had to act. Given the bank’s 90 percent market share and high liquidation costs, the World Bank recommended that the government restructure BCA instead.
With support from the World Bank, the government of Cape Verde embarked on an ambitious economic reform program in 1996. A number of profound changes were introduced.
Institutional changes
Changing BCA’s management team and training staff to be bankers rather than civil servants
Upgrading and improving management information systems Introducing new financial products and services Restructuring and privatizing BCA
Strengthening and regularizing bank supervision and improving the legal environment
Systemic changes
Enhancing the role of the country’s central bank as the monetary authority and supervisor of the financial system Installing a modern and electronic-based payments system (SWIFT, or Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication)
Opening up the financial sector to foreign banks, leading to better quality services
Over five years, BCA—and Cape Verde’s financial system as a whole—have been transformed. The two state-owned banks (including BCA) have been privatized and, combined with the arrival of foreign banks, competition has intensified in the banking sector; bank governance has improved; the culture has changed, with a civil service mentality progressively replaced with banking skills; and modern and electronic-based banking has been introduced. In addition, banks have become more profitable, have better-quality balance sheets, and have improved their services to customers.
and implementation of the Core Principles for Systemically Important Payments Systems
The Bank has changed the way it generates and delivers knowledge on financial systems it has worked more closely with partners, taken advantage of the Internet and distance learning, built online databases, and addressed information gaps that the Bank is uniquely able to fill Specifically, the Bank is helping countries understand the new challenges and choices offered by electronic finance and the impact of technology on the integration of regional financial markets in developing countries Together with the IMF, the Bank produced a handbook for developing government bond markets—essential for governments to reduce the exposure to external shocks. The Bank has tripled the resources accessible through the Financial Sector Web site, adding online databases that allow users to access banking laws and compare information about how banks are regulated and supervised around the world
Central to the dissemination effort is a new model for delivering training and knowledge to member countries Together with partners in the financial, academic, and official communities, the Bank has doubled its course offerings. Over 33 programs address policy issues in banking, capital markets, electronic finance, small financial systems, credit-reporting systems and credit scoring, housing finance, insurance supervision, disaster risk mitigation, payments systems, and microfinance
Building Effective Legal and Judicial Systems
Fighting poverty for lasting results is the World Bank’s mission Effective and equitable legal systems are vital to eradicating poverty—and sustaining gains. The Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s demonstrated not only that a sound financial architecture is essential for growth but also that an effective legal and judicial system is paramount for growth to be equitable and sustainable The transition in Eastern Europe has shown that market forces alone, without transparent laws and fair enforcement, can lead to uneven economic growth and increased poverty Poor people often lack legal rights that would empower them to take advantage of opportunities and protect them from arbitrary and inequitable treatment. They, more than any other group in society, are adversely affected by laws permitting discrimination, deficient laws and institutions that fail to protect individual and property rights, and insufficient enforcement of these laws, as well as other barriers to justice.
These lessons have prompted an increasing number of countries to promote the rule of law as a sine qua non of development and to recognize the
Legal service centers for poor women under the Ecuador Judicial Reform Project have assisted over 17,000 women to exercise their constitutional and civil rights Here, the World Bank's Vice President and General Counsel Ko-Yung Tung visits with women at one of the centers
need for legal and judicial reform. The rule of law requires the existence of an appropriate legislative framework and predictable and fair enforcement by independent judiciaries, and it calls for accountable and legitimate governments to maintain order, promote private sector growth, and fight inequality.
BANK SUPPORT FOR LAW AND JUSTICE
In line with a more comprehensive approach to development, the Bank’s support for law and justice has evolved from specific law reform, aimed at economic development, to a broader spectrum of activities Such activities have included legal education for the general public in the Russian Federation, anticorruption programs in Sri Lanka’s judiciary, indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms in Guatemala, and
legal aid for poor women in Ecuador. While the majority of legal and judicial reform projects have an indirect impact on poor people, innovative components are often included in projects to reach the most vulnerable members of society In poorer countries, the Bank supports efforts to bring justice close to the poor both physically and culturally by enhancing effective traditional informal mechanisms—while at the same time building a compatible formal system, and changing inherent traditional biases that may hurt the poor. In its work with middle-income countries, the Bank concentrates its efforts on modernizing the legal framework and strengthening the judicial system to promote economic development and social inclusion.
The broad objectives of assistance are to help bring about legal and judicial reform, improve governance and physical infrastructure, and increase access to justice Key elements of reform include promoting judicial independence through improved appointment systems, planning, and financing, as well as disciplinary procedures, modernizing judicial administration and case management, and training judges and court personnel Governance improvements encompass strengthening anticorruption programs, building capacity in public agencies and civil society organizations, and supporting bar associations and legal education Bank assistance may include improvements in physical infrastructure, such as providing public information areas in courthouses and setting design standards for court buildings to improve physical access for the public, as well as to increase efficiency Access to justice can be enhanced by providing legal counseling and advocacy, particularly for the vulnerable, and by developing alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and modernizing court administration
Working closely with governments, bar associations, judges, and civil society, the Bank is embarking on a number of activities in support of law and justice (figure 3 5). These diverse activities include the sharing of global and regional knowledge on topical issues, assessments of countries’ legal and judicial systems, and financing of countries’ legal and judicial efforts Together, these activities are helping to promote legal knowledge, as well as capacity and institution building, prerequisites for legal reform and for effective use of financial assistance
BUILDING A SOLID KNOWLEDGE BASE THROUGH NONLENDING SERVICES
Sharing of global experience. As work on legal and judicial systems must be founded on solid knowledge, creating and disseminating global knowledge on legal and judicial reform has become a major focus of Bank assistance in this area Following strong participation by legal, judicial, and other interested experts in the Global Conference on Comprehensive Legal Reform held in June 2000, the Bank launched an electronic forum to broaden the dialogue and build on the partnerships forged during the conference Over 600 subscribers from around the world participated in this virtual discussion Later in the year the Bank launched the Development Gateway for Law and Justice, initially focusing on insolvency law, judicial and legal reform, child labor law, and international environmental law. A new electronic forum initiated in May 2001 sought to develop momentum for the July 2001 Conference, “Empowerment, Security and Opportunity through Law and Justice,” in St. Petersburg, the Russian Federation It also served the purpose of benefiting those unable to attend the conference
Building capacity among legal practitioners.
Knowledge sharing took other forms in fiscal 2001 The Bank designed and launched a distance learning pilot course for Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Thailand, entitled “Judicial Reform Improving Performance and Accountability" This course focused on judicial independence and accountability, case management, empirical research, and corruption control. Another
innovation is the World Bank’s Legal Yearbook, a publication to be launched jointly with the IFC and MICA, offering seminal articles, case studies, and legal materials covering various subject areas of development law
Sharing global best practice. While laws are country specific, they benefit from regional harmonization and incorporation of global best-practice principles to foster empowerment, sccunty, and opportunity. Advisory services to borrowing countries helped tailor global comparative expertise to coun-trv-specific culture and traditions in a growing number of areas These areas have expanded to
include banking, corporate governance, environment, insolvency, infrastructure, water and forests, and land titling, as well as gender equity and indigenous peoples In addition, an insolvency initiative— in partnership with the IMF, regional development banks, IFC, the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Federation of Insolvency Practitioners, and the International Bar Association—was launched to develop best practices and guidelines for effective insolvency and creditor rights’ systems Also, the Bank established an International Advisory Council on Law and Justice, made lip of leading
Box 3.10 Support for Bangladesh’s Business Climate, Women, and Poor People
Approved in fiscal 2001, the Bangladesh Legal and judicial Capacity Building Project is aimed at (1) improving the business environment by making the civil |ustice system more supportive of economic activity, and (2) improving access to justice for women and poor people. The project combines traditional elements of judicial reform with innovative measures to increase access to justice and fight corruption. It also promotes women’s representation on the bench, gender-sensitivity training for judges and court personnel, legal aid for poor women, and informal dispute resolution mechanisms to bring justice to the underprivileged.
The project’s capacity-building component will help improve court administration and case management systems, upgrade court infrastructure, strengthen small claims courts, provide training, and upgrade training facilities Legal literacy and public awareness campaigns would be carried out in cooperation with local nongovernmental organizations.
The project—which was built on extensive consultations with civil society, legal professionals, and government officials—was funded by an IDA credit ($30 6 million, total project cost $43 7 million), with cofinancing by the Danish International Development Administration and the Canadian International Development Agency.
jurists and legal scholars, to provide guidance to the Bank on its law- and justice-related activities
Assessing countries’ legal and judicial systems.
Through intensive, comprehensive diagnostic assessments, the Bank has been building its knowledge of the significant elements of countries’ legal systems. Legal and judicial sector assessments are the basis for dialogue with governments and for the design and implementation of programs, in concert with other development partners In fiscal 2001 the Bank undertook assessments for Argentina, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Such assessments review appointment and disciplinary procedures of judges and provide baseline information on each system's efficiency and effectiveness Results from some of the assessments show that key areas in need of further m-depth analysis are access to justice, alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, gender protection, the cost of inefficient systems, and corruption.
LENDING FOR REFORM
To date there are 31 stand-alone projects in legal and judicial reform, there are more than 10 times that number of components in Bank-financed projects that deal with some aspect of legal and judicial reform New lending for legal and judicial reform amounted to $47 million for fiscal 2001—with another $515 million m preparation—and concentrated on deepening reforms in some of the world’s poorest countries. Activities included, a comprehensive program for legal and judicial reform in Bangladesh (see box 3.10) as well as similar programs in preparation for Benin, Guinea, the Philippines, and Sierra Leone The first full-scale evaluation of a judicial reform project was completed for Bolivia, allowing the Bank to draw the first lessons for other legal and judicial work in Latin America. The evaluation underscored the long-term nature of legal and judicial reform and the need for not only realistic expectations and goals but also unflinching commitment by the government and all stakeholders.
A survey of recent Bank activities in knowledge, capacity building, and law reform in 84 countries shows that the Africa Region had the highest percentage (52 percent) of capacity-building activities in legal and judicial reform (figure 3 5) Capacity- and mstitu-tion-building aspects of the legal and judicial reform activities supported by the Bank aim at strengthening the judiciary, strengthening legal institutions, and increasing access to justice Included in these activities was a series of workshops held to support the harmonization of commercial codes in 16 (francophone and lusophone) African countries under the Organisation pour l’Harmomsation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires Treaty, as well as the strengthening of the women lawyers’ association in Niger to increase its capacity to deliver legal services to the rural and urban poor Forty-nine percent of the activities in the South Asia Region were law reform activities, the Europe and Central Asia Region was close behind with 38 percent. These activities included reviewing land titling in Sri Lanka, as well as providing technical assistance on insolvency, enterprise restructuring, and institutional and regulatory reforms in the Czech Republic The East Asia Region had the largest number of knowledge activities, including a legal needs assessment in Mongolia
HIV/AIDS: Prevention Is Vital
Today 36 million people are infected with HIV; more than 21 million have died of AIDS since the 1980s; and over 13 million children have been orphaned by the disease.
As a cosponsor of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the World Bank has committed more resources to HIV/AIDS in fiscal 2001 than in any previous year. Other sections of this Annual Report discuss the Bank’s support to Africa (page 27) and work with partners (page 103).
In this chapter, the “Fast Facts” box in each section shows the number of persons living with HIV/AIDS.* While the epidemic’s impact on Sub-Saharan Africa has been by far the gravest, data for South Asia—a region with relatively low HIV prevalence rates but extensive vulnerability to the infection —underscore that both rates and absolute numbers matter. South Asia’s large population, for example, means that a rise of a mere 0.1 percent in the overall adult prevalence rate would increase the region’s total of adults living with HIV by about half a million persons.
Prevention is vital. And it is estimated that, while a national prevention program in Sub-Saharan Africa would cost less than $3 per capita with prevalence rates below 5 percent, costs would quadruple to $12 per capita at prevalence rates of 15 percent. UNAIDS estimates that a basic HIV/AIDS program in all developing countries would cost at least $9.2 billion per year, six times the current level of investment.
*	Figures presented in the "Fast Facts" boxes in this chapter represent UNAIDS estimates as of December 2000 and are based on UNAIDS regional definitions, which differ somewhat from those used by the World Bank For more details, visit www.unaids.org ^
"Today in Africa, we are aware that it’s not the Bank or the Fund that is going to develop our countries or fight against poverty. It's up to us. We shall do it. We need to he accompanied by these institutions because they have the knowhow that helps us to amplify, multiply, and accelerate what we are going to do. ”
Ali Badjo Gamatie, Minister of Finance of Niger, at the Spring 2001 Meetings of the World Bank and IMF.
Africa
REGIONAL CONTEXT: URGENT NEED FOR FASTER, REGIONWIDE DEVELOPMENT
Economic growth in Africa in 2000 was mixed. While it averaged 7 percent in Mozambique and Uganda and 5 percent in 14 other countries, Sub-Saharan Africa’s economic performance has, on average, weakened over the last two years, largely due to resurgent conflicts and political upheavals in a few countries. In addition, sharply higher oil prices in 2000 created adverse external shocks for some countries, while markets for other primary exports were depressed.
For much of the region, inequality is still high and growth remains below the 5 percent rate needed to prevent an increase in the number of poor Many still have no access to basic services and cannot effectively participate in the modern economy. HIV/AIDS remains one of the largest challenges to human development in Africa, having already reversed hard-won gains in life expectancy in several countries. Africa has also experienced falling levels of overseas development assistance, down to $ 19 per capita by 1998 from $32 in 1990.
These factors have sharpened the urgency for accelerated development in Africa. At the 2000 World Bank-IMF Annual Meetings in Prague, Bank President James D. Wolfensohn and IMF Managing Director Horst Kohler committed to making Africa a priority. In February 2001 they met with 22 African heads of state in Bamako, Mali, and Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, to listen to their visions of how Africa can accelerate growth rates, drastically reduce poverty, and position itself to benefit from globalization. The leaders recognized that poverty reduction had to begin with peace, democracy, and good governance. And they acknowledged that prospects for higher
incomes depended on a strong human resource base in Africa—calling for better access to health and education services and an exceptional, concerted fight against HIV/AIDS.
Regional cooperation and integration is also necessary to increase Africa’s competitiveness and position it to maximize the benefits of globalization Enhancing African access to global markets— especially the markets of industrialized countries and for agricultural products—is an essential factor, alongside debt relief and renewed official aid, for sustaining growth.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: ACCELERATING AFRICA’S DEVELOPMENT
Bank lending to Africa rose from $2.2 billion in fiscal 2000 to $3.4 billion in fiscal 2001 A strategy was submitted to the Board in December 2000 to increase IDA lending to Africa—to reach 50 percent of total IDA resources—while strengthening mechanisms to better reflect country performance in the allocations. The strategy was based on discussions held with IDA Deputies around the IDA-10-IDA-12
review, in preparation of the 13th Replenishment of IDA. Lending included new responses to the HIV/AIDS crisis and oil price shocks, as well as reengagement in several post-conflict countries. The increased aid flows also reflect the dramatically improved development effectiveness of the region’s Bank-financed projects following intense efforts to raise the quality of project preparation and supervision. Priority areas for Bank assistance were consistent with those articulated in the 2000 landmark study, Can Africa Claim, the 21st Centur)/?, which proposed ways for international donors to better support Africa’s development efforts with a focus on improving governance and resolving conflicts, investing in people, increasing competitiveness and diversifying
economies, reducing aid dependence, and strengthening partnerships. Key priorities in fiscal 2001 included providing debt relief to the poorest countries, tackling the HIV/AIDS epidemic, spurring private sector development, and helping countries empower communities as well as prevent and recover from conflict
The Bank works closely with multiple development partners in Africa, including multilateral organizations such as the African Development Bank, key bilaterals, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). For example, it works with the Food and Agriculture Organization on rural development, with the Forum of African Women Educationalists on girls’ education, and with the International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa, in whose support it contributed $4 million to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) Secretariat. In addition, the Strategic Partnership with Africa symbolizes the Bank’s role in bringing together aid agencies and African institutions, providing a forum for coherently addressing Africa’s development issues The Bank is also working closely with other partners to support the Nile Basin Initiative, and in June 2001 hosted the International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile, a Consultative Group-style meeting aimed at mobilizing funding for sustainable development of the 10 countries of the Nile Basin.
Table 4.1 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the Sub-Saharan Africa region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period. Table 8.2 (see About the World Bank) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8.8 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.1 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Supporting poverty reduction through debt relief
A total of 13 African countries qualified m fiscal 2001 to receive debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative For these countries, debt service will be reduced over time, from all creditors, by about two-thirds, or over $25 billion. Particularly in Africa such debt relief reflects the coming together of a global and diverse group of partners The Bank helped achieve consensus on debt reduction without jeopardizing positive aid transfers.
IDA-eligible African countries became eligible for debt relief by preparing Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), which bring aid agencies and countries together around common goals defined by the country. Through the PRSP process,
17	African countries began to pursue a country-driven development agenda, underpinned by a process of domestic consensus building and with support from development partners. Such support is provided by the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility and the Bank’s Poverty Reduction Support Credit, the first of which was approved for Uganda in fiscal 2001 (see page 43)
Tackling the HIV/AIDS epidemic and other communicable diseases
Investing in people—and addressing HIV/AIDS in particular—has been a key priority for the Bank, working closely with UNAIDS and other partners (see page 103). In September 2000, through a MultiCountry HIV/AIDS Program for Africa, the Bank made a regionwide commitment to put all the necessary resources at the disposal of African countries struck by the pandemic (see page 27). The Bank earmarked an initial $500 million in flexible and rapid IDA funding for individual HIV/AIDS projects developed by Sub-Saharan African countries, of which $287 million was committed in fiscal 2001 for proj-
Figure 4.1 Africa: IBRD and IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2001
Share of total of $3.4 billion
A young Peul Beroro girl and her father, near the southern town of Zmder, are among Niger's population of some 10 5 million whose living conditions the Bank seeks to improve A key focus of Bank assistance to Niger is combating desertification
ects in Cameroon, Eritrea, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Kenya, and Uganda. A second phase is being prepared In fiscal 2001 the Bank also stepped up its support for the fight against malaria, a serious killer, particularly among Africa's children (box 4 1)
Spurring private sector development
A buoyant private sector—both domestic and foreign—is critical for sustained growth and generation of jobs and domestic income The Bank continued supporting reforms aimed at improving the environment for business and investment It also developed new tools to support the development of trade, such as the seven-country Regional Trade Facilitation Project (box 4 2). In response to African leaders’ requests, the Bank increased its lending for infrastructure operations (transport, energy, water)— both to facilitate the development of the private sector and to improve living standards The Bank committed to further increase its lending in the infrastructure sectors in the coming years.
To ensure that development benefits do reach the poorest communities, the Bank developed Community Action Programs, which reflect the Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach that empowers communities by making resources available to them in support of effective local development programs The Bank has placed growing emphasis on decentralized CDD mechanisms to help channel resources to rural areas, such as the social funds in Malawi and nutrition programs in Senegal and Madagascar. This effort was complemented by a focus on strengthening capacities, m both the public and private sectors. The Bank has committed up to $ 150 million to the Partnership for Capacity Building in Africa (PACT) over five years, together with the Harare-based African Capacity Building Foundation. In 2000 PACT funded projects in 29 countries to help develop skills, knowledge, and management capacity.
Helping countries affected by conflict
Conflict is increasingly becoming a development issue in Africa. The Bank has strengthened its capacity to cooperate with specialized partners, including United Nations agencies, bilaterals, and NGOs, in preventing conflict and supporting postconflict recovery. With regard to prevention, the Bank has worked with others to try to address some of the root causes that may generate political instability and, eventually, conflict, and in particular poverty and inequalities. With regard to recovery, the Bank was active in several countries, both through project financing and technical advice. In November 2000 the Bank approved a $90 million credit to support Eritrea’s long-term reconstruction and economic recovery, through complementary actions in agriculture, private sector reconstruction, and social protection. The Bank also approved two credits totaling $400.6 million to assist the Ethiopian government with its post-war recovery program. Support included the emergency demobilization and reintegration of 150,000 veterans of the conflict with Eritrea, emergency humanitarian needs, and rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure, as well as stabilization of the economy and restarting the reform agenda. Other countries in which the Bank has been active in post-conflict reconstruction operations include Burundi, Guinea-Bissau, Rwanda, and Sierra Leone.
Malaria is on the rise again, killing over a million people a year worldwide, including an estimated 700,000 children. And the rising numbers of people affected by malaria are overwhelming national health services and weakening societies, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa, where 90 percent of the cases occur.
In April 2001 the Bank hosted the Fourth Global Partnership Meeting to Roll Back Malaria (RBM). Participants shared experiences on expanding country-level partnerships to implement national programs to reach the RBM goal of halving the burden of malaria by 2010. They examined the roles of government, the private sector, and NGOs in working together to extend malaria programs beyond the public health sector. They also discussed the challenges faced in mobilizing and effectively employing external resources, and the opportunities provided through the PRSP and HIPC initiatives to scale up successful malaria programs.
Box 4.?. Stimulating Africa’s Productivity by Facilitating Regional Trade
Financing for productive activities in Africa is severely con strained by a perception that the region is highly risky. In many countries, however, this perception is not justified by circumstances. The IDA-supported Regional Trade Facilitation Project (RTFP, S110 million) tackles this problem by bringing together countries that are willing to address the market’s perception by setting up a credible insurance mechanism against losses caused by political risks. These ceurtries' governments would be the ultimate risk takers in the Insurance mechanism, creating a strong disincentive to cause claims. Private insuiers, while not currently able to assume the high political risk in cross-border transactions involving African countries, would-with the public sector’s assumption of rlsk-be able to extend activities in the region.
The RTFP will benefit commercial firms involved in trade, by extending the maturities at which credit is available and creating a more stable business environment. Seven countries will initially benefit (Burundi, Kenya, Ma awi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia); the project could later be extended to all African countries.
East Asia and Pacific
REGIONAL CONTEXT: RECOVERY CONTINUES BUT RISKS PERSIST
East Asia’s recovery from financial crisis has been remarkable Growth in the region’s developing countries exceeded 7 percent in 2000, and extreme poverty is down to about 13 in 100 people living on less than $ 1 a day, compared with nearly 30 percent at the start of the decade Much of the progress was driven by China, a pillar of growth during the crisis. Steady recovery in other parts of East Asia has renewed progress in poverty reduction, which was interrupted during the crisis. 2000 marks the second consecutive year of growth for East Asia’s major economies. Countries are financially stronger than they were four years ago, which will help them manage the impact of the global contraction this year Revitalizing the business sector is essential to enhance resistance to shocks. Some smaller economies are lagging, and disparities within larger economies are high. Social vulnerability remains worrisome nearly half the population lives on less than $2 a day. Progress on other social development goals—which require effective institutions and service delivery—has been slower The need for increased responsiveness of public institutions has thus grown, in step with the emergence of an active civil society, a growing policy debate, and changes in government. Finally, the environment needs renewed attention
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: COMPETITIVE BUSINESSES, EMPOWERED COMMUNITIES, CLEANER AIR
The Bank’s primary objective is to reduce poverty through Country Assistance Strategies (CASs)
that build on strategic alliances and partnerships to encompass global good practices. In fiscal
2001,	$2.1 billion in new lending, covering 30 projects (excluding 3 with special trust fund financing), supplemented the Bank’s policy advice and technical support The strategic thrust of Bank assistance includes revitalizing the business sector, supporting public sector performance, addressing social risks, and preventing countries from retreating into environmental neglect.
Delivering global and regional experience to countries and applying resources to local needs are the driving principles behind the Bank’s strategy in East Asia Nearly half the Bank’s staff in the region and all its Country Directors are located in the field to ensure more effective assistance. Indonesia’s fiscal 2001 CAS, developed in a highly consultative manner, links increased concessional lending to improved governance; and a new transition strategy is guiding the Bank’s program in East Timor (box 4.3).
In Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Vietnam, the Bank is supporting comprehensive, long-term programs— developed by the countries through the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper process—that promote broad public participation and are pro-poor and pro-growth. A new CAS has been initiated for China
Table 4.2 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the East Asia and Pacific region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period Table 8.3 (see About the World Bank) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8.9 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.2 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Revitalizing East Asian business and restoring investor confidence
The Bank is helping to improve the institutional and policy environment for private investment through support for corporate restructuring, governance, and competitiveness. In Indonesia, it has worked closely with the IMF and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in bank and corporate restructuring, and led support to state banks. In Thailand, the Country Development Partnership for Competitiveness (CDPC)—nonlending support to take forward country dialogue in the absence of adjustment lending—is helping implement policies and financial and corporate reforms. In Vietnam, a new Poverty Reduction Support Credit is supporting a comprehensive set of structural reforms to promote increased private investment and to strengthen transparency and accountability in state enterprises, banks, and public finance—essential for broadly shared growth.
To promote regional competitiveness, the Bank is investing in information infrastructure, technology innovation, and skills development. Thailand’s CDPC is addressing key constraints in these areas, complemented by technical assistance from partners. The Bank-managed Vietnam Development Information Center is a multidonor-funded cutting-edge facility that offers distance learning and public access to global knowledge; the operation is one of four Global Development Learning Network centers established by the Bank in Asia. Through knowledge and country development partnerships established with countries such as the Republic of Korea and Thailand, the Bank is facilitating access to global development knowledge to reduce vulnerability and strengthen competitiveness (box 4.4). Work has also advanced with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to assess China’s knowledge economy and requirements for technological innovation. The Third Asia Development Forum for regional policymakers and others, organized jointly with ADB, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, and other partners, also aimed at preparing for the future economy.
Improving public services and governance
With rising public debt squeezing public spending, civil society in many East Asian countries is demanding more efficient and accountable govern-
In September 1999, East Timor was devastated by violence after the East Timorese voted overwhelmingly to break from Indonesia. Leading the coordination of the international community’s reconstruction efforts, the Bank has, over the last 18 months, administered the Trust Fund for East Timor. The fund received pledges of up to $166 million for basic reconstruction and development works in nearly all sectors.
Progress has been remarkable. Within six months, grant agreements for projects and programs in all sectors were signed. By December 2000 economic activity was recovering; projects supporting agriculture, community recovery, health, education, sanitation, and infrastructure were under way; a United Nations (U.N.) agency had set up power-sharing arrangements with the East Timorese; and a schedule for elections was agreed on. The Bank has developed a Transition Support Strategy to help East Timor as it moves toward post-U.N. independence. The challenges ahead are enormous— but within reach, if the success of the last two years provides any indication.
ment, improved social and infrastructure services, and better environmental safeguarding. Bank assistance thus continues to emphasize public sector transparency and accountability, and greater stakeholder participation in project design and implementation. Initiatives in Indonesia include anticorruption and civil service reforms. The Indonesian-led Partnership for Governance Reform—a joint initiative with the United Nations Development Programme— facilitates a national dialogue on governance and is funding innovative reform proposals from civil society and government agencies
Bank operations are adopting demand-oriented and private sector approaches to service delivery, particularly in infrastructure activities and with emphasis on cost recovery. Decentralized public sector decisionmaking and accountability are also priorities. Indonesia’s Provincial Health Project is delivering services to the poor in the provinces of Banten, North Sumatera, and West Java in an increasingly decentralized environment The Philippines’ Local Government Finance and Development Project is making cities more livable by expanding and upgrading basic infrastructure, services, and facilities, as well as the capacity of participating local governments In China, the Economic Law Reform Project is financing technical assistance for preparing economic laws, while the Accounting Reform Project is helping government auditors curb waste and other misuse of resources, and strengthen public sector financial management. In Thailand, Bank-funded surveys to gauge household, private sector, and public sector perceptions of corruption have raised national awareness of, and debate on, the problem.
Reducing vulnerability and ensuring that poor people benefit from growth
Bank strategy has evolved from supporting safety nets and crisis assessment to strengthening policies and institutions that help households manage social risks, build social policy frameworks, and enable the poor to participate in the benefits of growth. Social programs in low- as well as middle-income countries have increasingly emphasized community empowerment and demand-driven approaches. In Cambodia the Social Fund II Project is financing community-based subprojects for infrastructure, creating employment opportunities, and strengthening communities and local governments. Indonesia’s Kecamatan
Box 4.4 Innovating with Knowledge and Country Development Partnerships: The Republic of Korea and Thailand
Through partnerships established with countries such as Korea and Thailand, the Bank is facilitating access to global development knowledge to reduce vulnerability and strengthen competitiveness. These have emerged as the central development concerns in middle-income countries following the crisis.
The knowledge partnership with the Korean government is contributing to Korea's efforts to become a more competitive, knowledge-based economy and to transfer Korean development experience to other countries. In June 2001 the Bank, jointly with the Korean Development Institute, organized a workshop on business innovation systems, providing insights that can be applied to other developing countries.
In Thailand, the Bank is assisting the government via country development partnerships centered on technical assistance and capacity-building needs, private sector and civil society involvement, and grant resource mobilization. The partnership on competitiveness focuses on completing the reform agenda and implementing the forward-looking agenda—deepening skills, strengthening innovation capabilities, and improving logistics.
World Bank officials visit a school m Jakarta whose students received scholarships from the National Scholarships and Grants Program, a donor-supported program that helped poor families and schools face the impact of the 1997-98 financial crisis
Development Project is helping 10,000 subdistricts nationwide fund small-scale infrastructure projects or income-generating activities; the project is strengthening local capacity, empowering village councils, and improving community participation.
The Bank has also been supporting areas of extreme poverty. Mongolia’s rural transport project is improving poor communities’ access to health and education services and facilitating private enterprise and trade. In Vietnam, small-scale infrastructure and livelihood projects are being planned to tackle poverty in some of the country’s poorest areas through participatory, decentralized, and targeted approaches. China’s Tri-Provincial Highway Project is helping develop transport in three western provinces while improving road access to poor counties to reduce income inequalities.
Improving the environment
With urbanization now embracing half the population in the region’s major countries, urban air and water pollution is an extremely serious problem. Together with the Ford Motor Company, ADB, and the governments of Japan and the Netherlands, the Bank has launched the Clean Air Initiative for Cities of East Asia as a platform for knowledge sharing among Asian cities. Assistance to countries includes
work with the Bangkok authorities to tackle motorcycle pollution; a multidonor report on China’s environment and a report analyzing options for natural resource management in Indonesia; and support for projects in China with a strong environmental focus, which have been the fastest-growing part of the Bank’s loan portfolio for that country ($1 2 billion approved in fiscal 2000-01). For example, the Sichuan Urban Environment Project is bringing cleaner water and a healthier environment to six million low-income people in Sichuan while helping protect and restore the Grand Buddha of Leshan, a World Cultural Heritage site.
Figure 4.2 East Asia and Pacific: IBRD and IDA Lending
by Sector, Fiscal 2001
Share of total of $2.1 billion
REGIONAL CONTEXT: GROWING STEADILY, BUT BELOW POTENTIAL
At 5 8 percent, growth in South Asia in 2000 continued to be robust and sustained compared to the rest of the world. Long-term growth continues to be well below potential, however, and the 2000 outcome was also affected by drought that undermined agricultural output in some parts of the region.
India’s GDP growth led the region at 6 percent, while Bangladesh’s remained steady, at 5.2 percent Strength in manufacturing and exports raised Pakistan’s growth slightly, to 3.8 percent.
The stability of South Asia’s growth is impressive, given recurrent natural disasters and continuing political instability in some areas Drought struck northern India, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, a massive earthquake killed thousands in India. Other more chronic obstacles to growth were poor governance, civil conflict, and insufficient economic reforms.
The pace of India’s economic reforms has been slowed by political challenges at the state level. Pakistan continues to face pervasive, inherited governance problems and economic distortions, confronting them effectively will be crucial to the success of its Economic Revival Program introduced in 2000 In Bangladesh, a sharply polarized political environment prior to 2001 elections slowed implementation of second-generation reforms necessary to accelerate growth and reduce poverty. Over the year, political instability continued in Nepal, and in June
2001	the country suffered the tragedy of the royal assassinations, Sri Lanka saw a combination of a deepening of its 18-year conflict, a fragile ceasefire, and political volatility, and intense fighting continued in Afghanistan.
South Asia’s poverty continues to present a profound development challenge Half a billion people live on less than $1 a day, accounting for 44 percent of the world’s poor. The illiteracy rate is the world’s highest, and women have only about half as many years of education as men. Lack of access to health care, the continuing acceleration of HIV infection, and environmental degradation are only a few of the problems that threaten the region’s prosperity and undermine the quality of life for all, especially poor people
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: STRENGTHENING PROSPECTS FOR LASTING DEVELOPMENT
The Bank’s central goal in South Asia is reduction of poverty and vulnerability, which it pursues by promoting country and community ownership of development efforts; responding quickly to crises; supporting increased investment in human development, especially for marginalized groups; and encouraging private sector—led and equitably shared economic growth.
Table 4.3 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the South Asia region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period Table 8.4 (see About the World Bank) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8 10 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.3 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Promoting ownership and empowering communities
In fiscal 2001 the Bank consulted extensively with local communities, civil society, and government officials in preparing its Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) for India, Bangladesh, Sn Lanka, and Pakistan (box 4.5). It also engaged in civil society
Girls raise their hands to indicate that they are in school, during World Bank consultations in rural Pakistan The consultations were among several held with numerous stakeholders to inform the 8ank's Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan
In preparing a new CAS, the Bank’s Pakistan team conducted consultations from the village to the national level, talking to farmers, women’s groups, NGOs, trade unions, academia, media, government officials, and politicians. The team heard voices of deep concern about widespread corruption, and despair about the lack of economic opportunities, fair access to justice, education, and health services. But it also heard creative ideas from people with a great desire to make a difference in their own lives.
The CAS consultations helped the Bank identify local development needs and priorities as determined by the citizens themselves. It is hoped that the opening of this dialogue will lead to a more inclusive development process in Pakistan.
consultations and interactive workshops that allowed the Bank to bring its global development experience to client countries while seeking local perspectives on development priorities.
In India, over 300 politicians, civil servants, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) met at a workshop on state-level reforms in December 2000—sponsored by the Bank, other donors, and the Ministry of Finance—to exchange ideas with global fiscal and governance experts, while a number of large workshops at the federal level also helped to examine fiscal, privatization, and business-climate issues
Support for sector-level dialogue included a workshop in Pakistan on the sustainable provision of water and sewerage services in Karachi, and a series of consultations to help national and provincial authonties and other stakeholders better understand the needs and concerns of road users. Two journalism workshops aimed at strengthening the media were sponsored by the World Bank Institute’ one on economic reporting and one, offered with support from the Commonwealth Press Union, on corruption and journalism ethics.
The Bank is helping increase local ownership of development efforts by empowering communities to design and implement projects. For example, India’s District Poverty Initiatives projects (in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan) and Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project closely involve rural communities in efforts to increase their access to resources and improved serv-
ices. Sri Lanka's pilot Village Self-Help Learning Initiative, meanwhile, includes a Village Community Telecenter that relies on information technology and communications to help reduce poverty in remote villages. The project is funded by a Japanese Social Development Fund Grant administered by the Bank.
Working together to respond to crises
Bank assistance in fiscal 2001 helped address needs arising from natural disaster- and conflict-related crises, recognizing their devastating impact on poor people. Response to India’s earthquake was quick, collaborative, and multidimensional (box 4.6). In drought- and conflict-ridden Afghanistan, the Bank is helping the efforts of the United Nations and other agencies to alleviate famine and malnutrition among an estimated 12 million Afghanis (including those in refugee centers in neighboring Pakistan).
In Sri Lanka, the Bank-financed North-East Irrigated Agricultural Lands Project continues to make progress amid the challenges of conflict. The project aims to re-establish at least a subsistence level of production and basic community services through agricultural and small-scale reconstruction activities. Partners include the government of Sri Lanka, the focal communities, local NGOs, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, and the International Committee of the Red Cross. Both parties to the conflict have been appreciative of this work to assist some half a million people in the conflict zone.
Investing in people
The Bank’s support to South Asia recognizes the centrality of education and health in poverty reduction. A new project in Bangladesh will strengthen literacy programs and help the newly literate utilize their skills, benefiting some 1 6 million of the country’s poorest people, half of them women. Also in Bangladesh, a new Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project will help improve access to justice, especially for the poor and women (see page 62). A distance-learning project—the first of its kind in South Asia—offers videoconference and Internet-based training opportunities to political and business leaders in Sri Lanka, expanding their
access to global development knowledge. In Pakistan, Bank participation in policy dialogue has helped the government prepare a national education sector strategy.
In fiscal 2001 the Bank continued its strong support for the region’s health programs—which are showing results A second project to deepen HIV/AIDS prevention efforts is under way in India, the first helped to launch a national control program, increase blood safety from 30 percent to nearly 100 percent, significantly reduce risky behavior, and raise condom use in high-risk groups. Another follow-up project in India, this one approved in fiscal 2001 to fight leprosy, will help move India toward elimination of this disease; under the first project, 4.4 million patients received treatment, and registered leprosy cases fell from over 1 million in 1993 to 500,000 in 2000. In fiscal 2001 the Bank also approved an HIV/AIDS Prevention Project in Bangladesh, targeting high-risk groups In addition, the Bank is helping combat tuberculosis (TB) in South Asia, which has 3 of the 10 countries with the world’s highest TB incidence In India the Bank supports a revised national TB control program, which treated 1.1 million patients in
1999	and rising in 2000 under DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short-course—a cost-effective strategy that reduces illness, deaths, and transmis-
Figure 4.3 South Asia: IBRD and IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2001
Share of total of $3.2 billion
Agriculture and Environment
A woman shares the story of her loss with World Bank team members following the devastating earthquake in Gujarat
Box 4.6 Disaster Response: Multidimensional Assistance, Partnership, and Participation
On january 26,2001, a severe earthquake hit India’s Gujarat state, leaving over 20,000 people dead, nearly a million families homeless, social infrastructure destroyed, and a government suddenly faced with an immense challenge.
The Bank quickly made $400 million available for emergency rehabilitation and partnered with counterparts from the Asian Development Bank to prepare a comprehensive damage assessment (http://www.worldbank.org/guiarat "ft ), crucial to shaping a recovery plan and guiding cooperation among all parties.
Reconstruction needs are estimated at a staggering $2.3 billion. The Bank’s emergency assistance of $400 million provides short-term financing for temporary shelter, rubble removal, health and education services, rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, community capacity building, and establishment of disaster management capabilities. A longer-term reconstruction credit is under preparation. In close consultation with Indian authorities, the Bank is urging the active participation of affected communities in all reconstruction efforts.
sion). The Bank is also supporting efforts to expand DOTS in Pakistan and Bangladesh.
Promoting private sector growth
A dynamic private sector is crucial for growth—and thus central to the Bank’s country programs. India’s Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project, approved in fiscal 2001, continues the Bank’s support for private provision of infrastructure in the region It will help advance the privatization of distribution firms and promote small-scale power generation as well as renewable energy production for remote locales The Pakistan Trade and Transport Facilitation Project, also approved in fiscal 2001, will help the country modernize and reform its transport sector. Lower transport costs will help Pakistan’s industries become more competitive in international markets.
In fiscal 2001 the IFC, the Bank Group’s private investment—promotion arm, continued to complement Bank assistance for the region’s private sector development IFC is helping South Asia accelerate private participation in the provision of infrastructure, tourism, health, and education services, and is providing support for countries’ financial sectors and capital markets
"In Poland I turned to the World Bank with which we had already established a good working relationship through the transition years. Because it is independent, the Bank can help give a credible start to anticorruption initiatives. It helped us with the analytical work and advised us on the policy and technical reforms that can help to minimize corruption.”
Leszek Balcerowicz, op-ed in Segodnya (Russian Federation newspaper). September 2000.
Europe and Central Asia
REGIONAL CONTEXT: GROWING ECONOMIES, NEED FOR STRONGER BUSINESS CLIMATE
The year 2000 marks the first year in the past decade when all transition countries experienced positive growth Growth in Central Europe and the Baltics averaged 4 percent, the highest during the last five years. The Baltic countries, Croatia, the Czech Republic, and Romania started to grow again after having stabilized their economies in the previous year. Overall, growth in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries reached a record high of 7.4 percent, led by the Russian Federation’s strong economic recovery fueled by higher energy prices and the post-1998 currency depreciation.
Barring a sharp decline in growth in Western Europe, economic growth is expected to remain strong in most of the region into 2001. Many of the new administrations in Central Europe and the Baltics are accelerating reforms, and the European Union (EU) accession process has become an important catalyst. Continued growth in the Russian Federation and Ukraine will depend crucially on improving the environment for business and private investment. Such improvement could not only raise the present low levels of domestic and foreign direct investment but also spur growth of new small- and medium-size firms—a major factor in the growth of the Baltics and Central Europe
Major developments have occurred in Turkey and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia In late 2000, the new administration of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia embarked upon a reform program to facilitate the transition to a market economy, and reestablished links with the international community
In Turkey, the macroeconomic stabilization program suffered a major setback in February 2001, and output is expected to decline this year The currency depreciated sharply and major losses occurred in the banking sector. A comprehensive structural reform of the public and financial sectors accelerated in the spring, alongside implementation of agricultural reform.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: CREATING JOBS, PROTECTING THE VULNERABLE, FIGHTING CORRUPTION
Poverty has increased substantially in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region over the last decade, resulting from the deep economic recessions initiated by the transition process Helping countries to move to a sustainable growth path—and to ensure that growth translates into jobs and improved living standards—continues to be a major component of the Bank’s poverty reduction strategy, with efforts to help improve the business climate A second component is support for realigning public expenditures to protect extensive achievements in education and health, and improving the targeting of social protection programs toward the most vulnerable. Improving governance and institutional structures to serve the broader public interest, with a strong focus on anticorruption and community-driven development, marks a third component of the Bank’s strategy. This strategy incorporates lessons learned from the past decade of transition experience (see http://www.worldbank.org/eca/ publications •'5 )
The Bank continues to play a key role in supporting peace and economic recovery in South East Europe. With other partners, it has helped the new government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia prepare an Economic Recovery and Transition
Program, and cosponsored a donor conference to raise funds for this Program. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia became a member of the World Bank in iVIay, after agreement was reached on a plan to resolve its arrears to the IBRD The Bank prepared a Transitional Support Strategy, and start-up activities are being financed by a $30 million trust fund The Bank is also helping Kosovo rebuild its economy and is continuing its support for regional initiatives in South East Europe, including the Trade and Transport Facilitation Program. Under this program, Bank-financed projects in six South East European countries will help reduce nontariff transport costs and reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings by supporting reforms and financing critical infrastructure and equipment needs.
The Bank moved rapidly to support the new economic program of Turkey by preparing a series of adjustment loans to accelerate structural reform and mitigate social risks. A loan supporting the initial phase of financial sector reforms was approved in December 2000.
Table 4 4 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the Europe and Central Asia region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period. Table 8.5 (see About the World Bank) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8 11 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.4 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Launching the Poverty Reduction Strategy process
The Poverty Reduction Strategy process was launched in all nine IDA countries in the ECA region during fiscal 2000. Albania presented its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) to the Bank and the IMF Boards in fiscal 2000; Armenia, Georgia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, and Tajikistan presented their I-PRSPs in fiscal 2001; and Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Kyrgyz Republic are expected to present theirs in early fiscal 2002. Extensive consultations are under way in Albania and the Kyrgyz Republic and will take place in other countries as they prepare full-fledged PRSPs The newly established ECA Nongovernmental Organization (NGO) Working Group—an external advisory group of
Water user associations are one of many civil society groups in Armenia helping the World Bank to formulate its Country Assistance Strategy
NGOs from Europe and Central Asia—is providing feedback on the process.
The external debt situation of some of the region’s poorest countries is of growing concern In fiscal 2001 the Bank and the IMF produced a joint paper analyzing the magnitude and severity of the problem across IDA-only CIS countries. Additional work is under way to identify country-specific options for ensuring that debt servicing does not crowd out poverty-oriented public spending
Box 4.7 Promoting Community-Based Services for Vulnerable Children
Improving the business climate
Growth and job creation have been much stronger in countries experiencing rapid growth of new small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Improving the business climate, especially for SMEs, has become a key focus of adjustment operations. The Armenia Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit, for example, aims to improve the business climate by rationalizing the system of business inspections, streamlining business registration and licensing procedures, and reforming the tax and customs administration as well as the public procurement system, to create a level playing field, especially for new businesses. Armenia, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine are initiating a series of regular business surveys to monitor progress on efforts to reduce public interference in business activity
Ensuring essential social services
The Bank continues to help countries reform their safety nets to ensure greater financial sustainability and better targeting For example, a new IDA credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina supports pension reform, while an IBRD loan will help Turkey finance severance payments and labor redeployment services as the economy restructures. Loans to Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, and Moldova are helping governments undertake major restructuring m their health and education sectors, to improve service and reduce informal payments that households are forced to make The Moldova project will help the government develop tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/AIDS strategies The Bank is also preparing operations to help Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine fight these diseases In FYR Macedonia, a Learning and Innovation Credit will test community-based approaches to support youth at risk, while in Bulgaria a Bank-financed project addresses the problems of children at risk (see box 4.7)
Improving governance and increasing community involvement
The Bank is supporting a multipronged strategy for combating corruption, combining economic policy reform, public administration reform; legal and judi-
Today nearly a million children live “lives of quiet desperation” in institutions across the region, according to a report of the joint United Nations Children’s Fund-World Bank project “Changing Minds, Policies and Lives.” The project aims to promote systemic change in the region from reliance on state institutions to strengthened family and community-based services for vulnerable children. Over the past three years the Bank has supported efforts in Armenia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Moldova, and Romania to establish viable alternatives to institutionalization.
Romania has pioneered community-based alternatives to institutionalization with the help of a $5 million Learning and Innovation Loan as part of a larger $29 million program supported also by the EU, U.S. Agency for International Development, Council of Europe Development Bank, and some international NGOs. This support has enabled the government to close down large institutions, prevent abandonment, and move children to family-friendly environments. Bulgaria’s Child Welfare Reform Project follows a similar approach, benefiting 40,000 institutionalized children. Partnering with police, who are usually the first to come into contact with problematic family situations, marks an innovative feature of the project. Preventive actions include working with disadvantaged ethnic communities (such as the Roma who account for the majority of institutionalized children) to improve basic preschool education and day care.
cial reform, and building public oversight, transparency, and accountability in the use of public resources. In the past year the Bank has assisted Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Romania, and the Russian Federation in carrying out corruption surveys, which provide the basis for devising country-specific anticorruption strategies. Support to Ukraine has helped the government take steps to eliminate nontransparent netting operations between government entities, streamline licensing procedures, and reduce the number of inspections, while promoting the adoption of improved accounting standards and disclosure procedures, as well as civil society involvement, m the budget process. Projects under development in FYR Macedonia and Latvia aim to improve the credibility of public expenditure policies and accountability to citizens, while support for institutional reform in
Croatia attacks corruption by introducing transparent working procedures in commercial courts and increasing the accountability of judges and other officials Also to reduce poverty, the Bank is scaling up efforts to help develop effective community organizations and provide them with resources to address their own development priorities. Project experience—for example, with the Moldova and Romania Social Investment Fund Projects—shows that community organizations are often in the best position to manage local public initiatives Projects approved this fiscal year with Community-Driven Development components will help Albania,
Bulgaria, FYR Macedonia, and Turkey.
“Perhaps one of the most important aspects of our partnership with the project cofinanced by the government and the World Bank is the integration of drug users into public health interventions.
The financing shows the Bank’s recognition of the importance of the work we do with drug users, and not just for them.’’
Domiciano Siquiera of ABORDA, an NGO working with HIV-infected drug users in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Latin America and the Caribbean
REGIONAL CONTEXT: IMPROVING MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, BUT INEQUALITIES PERSIST
In 2000 most Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) economies were on the path of recovery after the shocks triggered by the 1998-99 crises in Asia and the Russian Federation. The region’s GDP grew by
3	8 percent over the year, responding to stabilized global financial markets and 13 percent growth in world trade. Most macroeconomic indicators improved Inflation fell or remained stable in most countries, allowing interest rates to continue falling. Unemployment dropped in Brazil, Chile, and Mexico, it remained high, however, in Argentina, Colombia, and Peru, where political problems contributed to slowing growth Slower growth in the United States could affect prospects for the region’s sustained recovery.
Strong trade—at 51.5 percent of LAC’s GDP, nearly double the proportion of a decade ago—and high oil prices eased balance of payments pressures in the region High oil prices helped Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela but increased the burden on oil importers, particularly in Central American and Caribbean countries, which already faced price declines for their commodity exports. Oil exporters’ higher surpluses narrowed the region’s current account deficit from $55 billion in 1999 to $47 billion in 2000—about 2.5 percent of GDP. The oil price boom prompted a temporary dip in the need for foreign savings and, accordingly, a drop in net resource flows to the region. Net foreign direct
investment dropped from a historic high of $90 billion in 1999 to a still significant $76 billion in 2000
Despite economic growth, about a third of the region’s population still lives on less than $2 a day, and deep inequalities persist in most countries Expanding poor people’s access to health, education, and water services remains a priority, particularly for countries hit by severe natural disasters In addition, a continentwide trend toward decentralization of powers and responsibilities is creating an urgent need for the region’s state, provincial, and municipal governments to build their capacity to deliver quality public services, especially to poor people.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: INVESTING IN PEOPLE, MANAGING DISASTER RECOVERY, SUPPORTING DECENTRALIZATION
In fiscal 2001 the Bank helped LAC countries reduce poverty by supporting human development and disaster reconstruction programs and, in the poorest countries, providing debt relief In the region’s larger countries, it helped strengthen the public sector and reform governance systems, often to accommodate the shifting of responsibilities from central to decentralized authorities. The Bank also participated in a major multilateral effort to help Argentina address its recession by indicating readiness to commit up to $2.4 billion over 2001 and
2002	as part of a $39.7 billion IMF-backed package. Throughout the region, wide consultations with stakeholders are a priority to ensure ownership—and therefore greater sustainability—of development efforts (box 4.8).
Table 4.5 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the Latin America and the Caribbean region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period. Table 8.6 (see About the World Bank) com-
Box 4.8 Wider Consultations: The Bank's New Approach to Developing Strategy
With globalization, and civil society deeply engaged in public policy debates, the Bank is consulting with stakeholders more than ever in developing assistance strategies for LAC countries. In Argentina, a new Country Assistance Strategy drew perspectives from over 4,000 representatives from nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), unions, companies, religious groups, and academic institutions who attended Bank-organized meetings across the country. Participants discussed studies on topics ranging from education and judicial reform to transportation and the financial sector. Similar processes have been completed, or are under way or planned, in several other countries.
In Mexico, the July 2000 election that resulted in a change of government was followed in October by a Bank-sponsored policy seminar attended by decisionmakers from the outgoing and incoming teams. The seminar focused on analyses and recommendations prepared by Bank staff in 36 areas ranging from macroeconomic policy to human development.
pares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8.12 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.5 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Investing in people
Support for investing in people is a priority in IBRD-as well as IDA-eligible countries. New Bank assistance was approved in fiscal 2001 for vulnerable children’s education and health in Colombia, basic education in Brazil and Panama, water and sanitation in Ecuador, and social protection in Argentina and Colombia—raising the Bank’s regional portfolio of ongoing projects in health, education, and social protection to $7.2 billion. The portfolio includes efforts to address inequalities. As part of an overall strategy to focus efforts in Brazil’s poorest region, for example, the Bank is supporting a government initiative to provide land and capital to about 50,000 farmers in the northeast.
The Bank’s $2.6 billion health care portfolio in LAC includes Mexico’s five-year-old program to expand health-care coverage; 8.1 million poor people, mostly in small communities with no previous coverage, now have access. In the Caribbean, the Bank is helping attack the world’s highest HIV prevalence rate outside Sub-Saharan Africa, with a $155 million program to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs in several countries, starting with Barbados and the Dominican Republic. Support for Brazil’s efforts to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS has yielded good results, with a halving in the number of such deaths since 1993 (box 4.9).
The Bank has provided over $2 billion since 1998 to improve education for poor people, with projects ranging from primary education in rural areas of Brazil, El Salvador, and Nicaragua, to postsecondary student loan programs in Mexico. In El Salvador, three loans totaling $148 million have supported a community-managed schools program (EDUCO) to strengthen preschool and primary education, as well as a program for secondary education. EDUCO, which brought schools and teachers to many poor rural areas for the first time, has raised the country’s primary enrollment to almost 85 percent, up from 78 percent in 1996. The EDUCO model has been used to develop similar projects in Guatemala and Honduras, also with Bank support.
In some of LAC’s poorest countries, debt relief and effective poverty reduction strategy go together. In Bolivia,
Guyana, Honduras, and Nicaragua, governments—in consultation with civil society—are developing strategies to halve	'	*
poverty by 2015	'
The Poverty
Reduction Strategy	.■
Papers coincide with debt reduction provided under the
enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, supported by the Bank and the IMF In fiscal 2001 Guyana, Honduras, and Nicaragua joined Bolivia in obtaining required Bank agreement to start receiving reductions in their external debt The agreements will reduce, over time and from all creditors, Nicaragua’s debt service by $4.5 billion, Honduras’s by $900 million, and Guyana’s by $590 million, in addition to the $1.3 billion debt service reduction for Bolivia approved in fiscal 2000.
Sup-porting natural disaster recovery and preparedness
Recovery from natural disasters remained a high priority in Central America. The Bank helped Belize, Honduras, and Nicaragua continue to rebuild after the devastation of Hurricane Mitch in 1998. In El Salvador, $33 million in education loans were reprogrammed to finance reconstruction of schools damaged in the two earthquakes of January and February 2001 The Bank is also supporting prevention efforts in Dominica, Grenada, Mexico, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines to reduce loss of life and material damage caused by natural disasters A $60 million credit to Honduras will support a fifth phase of the Social Investment Fund, which has provided grants for reconstruction, as well as drinking water and
Box 4.9 Helping Brazil Save Lives, Prevent the Spread of HIV/AIDS
Two Bank loans totaling $325 million—approved in fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1999—have helped Brazil reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, and enabled Brazilians with AIDS to live longer. The first $160 million loan supported over 400 grassroots projects run by 175 NGOs in cooperation with state and municipal governments. They distributed over 180 million condoms, raised HIV/AIDS awareness among over half a million people at risk, and trained 3,800 teachers and 32,500 students in promoting HIV/AIDS and drug abuse prevention.
The project, now in a second phase and supported by a $165 million loan, has helped reduce the number of deaths due to Al DS by 50 percent since 1993. Persons living with HIV/AIDS also receive care through the project, because it supports AIDS care units and home-care teams throughout the country. But prevention remains the project’s focus. It has helped finance a nationwide network of 170 HIV/AIDS testing and counseling centers and 800 diagnostic and treatment centers, and in partnership with the National Business AIDS Council, it enabled 3,000 companies to offer HIV/AIDS-awareness training to three to five million workers.
Figure 4.5 Latin America and the Caribbean: IBRD and IDA Lending by Sector, Fiscal 2001
Share of total of $5.3 billion
sanitation systems, roads, schools, and health centers for the poor. In Colombia the Bank is helping to alleviate the impact of economic crisis by supporting a workfare program and conditional cash transfers to help poor families keep children in school and maintain access to health and nutrition services.
Benefiting poor people in Pompoa, Honduras, this subproject is one of over 15,000 small-scale, community-driven public investments financed since 1990 by the Honduras Social Investment Fund. A fifth IDA credit of $60 million was approved in fiscal 2001, bringing the total value of the programs to $300 million.
Strengthening the public sector
Lending to subnational governments emerged as a major new Bank activity in LAC in 2001. The Bank is helping Argentina’s Catamarca and C6rdoba provinces, for example, to reform public finance and administration to ensure that decentralized health care, education, and public safety services are of high quality and accessible to the poor.
In Mexico, the Bank has supported the federal government’s efforts to facilitate structural reforms in the country’s states, including a $505 million fast-disbursing loan to the Estado de Mexico (the country’s largest state) in fiscal 2001. Support to Mexico has included a study of the challenges inherent in devolving responsibilities to state and municipal governments, including analysis of taxation, transfer payments, and dispute settlement mechanisms.
Two projects are helping Brazil’s state governments in Bahia and Ceard improve basic education systems. Also in Brazil, the Bank is supporting the government’s fiscal stability program with a $758 million loan focused on fiscal discipline by states and municipalities, federal debt management, and public expenditure management.
The World Bank Annual Report 2001
Middle East and North Africa
REGIONAL CONTEXT: IMPROVING PERFORMANCE, STILL FACING SERIOUS CHALLENGES
Starting in the late 1980s many of the economies of the Middle East and North Africa (MNA) region committed to far-reaching economic reforms to restore macroeconomic balances and promote development led by the private, rather than the public, sector Economic performance improved annual GDP growth increased from
2	4 percent in 1981-90 to 3.1 percent in the 1991—2000 period, as well as over the past year Despite the improved performance, the region faces serious economic and social challenges. The break in the peace process, resulting in border closures, has posed severe problems in the West Bank and Gaza. Unemployment rates, averaging over 15 percent regionally, are of mounting concern Much of the region is still characterized by large public sectors, with centralized governments, overstaffed civil services, and weak systems of accountability Several countries continue to be extremely vulnerable to weather and commodity price shocks due to their limited economic resource base. Basic infrastructure and services vital for private sector growth remain weak. Integration with the rest of the world still lags behind other developing economies in Asia and Latin America Poverty, though relatively low' by some income measures, persists in large pockets throughout the region.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE: SUPPORTING THE PRIVATE SECTOR, PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS, AND HUMAN RESOURCES
The diversity of the MNA region’s challenges calls for customized Bank assistance. Fiscal 2001 was marked by continued support for client-driven services to alleviate poverty, rapid response to severe economic shocks in the West Bank and Gaza (through grant and concessional financing provided by the Bank’s Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank), and reimbursable technical assistance to the Gulf Cooperation Council countries as well as Malta and Libya—whose incomes make them ineligible for IBRD lending but which benefit from advisory' services in a wide range of areas
The Bank’s assistance strategy to MNA countries focused on three priority areas in fiscal 2001. The first was helping strengthen the overall climate for investment and private sector—led growth—critical for employment generation—by maintaining macroeconomic stability and pursuing efficiency-enhancing policy reform A second priority was support for strengthening public sector management and institution building through more efficient use of budgetary resources and enhanced mechanisms for participation. Bank assistance also focused on social protection and human resource development by helping countries improve the quality and coverage of education and health-care services, reduce disparities in incomes and access to services through targeted community-based development, and protect the vulnerable with effective social policies In addition, support for knowledge sharing through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) strengthens prospects for empowerment of people and increases the region’s productivity (box 4.10).
The Bank increasingly depends upon partnerships in the development process. Broad consultation with civil society and the poor is essential to better understanding their needs and helping them plan and implement their own development strategies. In Morocco, for example, the Bank organized consultations with over 55 civil society representatives to inform the preparation of its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Partnership with other development organizations is equally vital, to share knowledge and avoid gaps and overlaps in activities. For example, the Bank-sponsored Palestinian nongovernmental organization (NGO) project (Phase II approved in fiscal 2001), designed to strengthen NGOs’ capacity to deliver improved services to the poor, has drawn international attention to the approach of relying on NGOs’ comparative advantages in addressing the needs of poor people. Partnership has also helped Egyptian women obtain identification cards (see box 4.11).
Table 4.6 shows the value and sectoral distribution of total Bank lending to the Middle East and North Africa region in the fiscal 1992-2001 period. Table 8.7 (see About the World Bank) compares commitments, disbursements, and net transfers to the region for fiscal 1996-2001, and table 8.13 (see About the World Bank) shows operations approved in fiscal 2001, by country. Figure 4.6 shows IBRD and IDA lending by sector.
Strengthening the climate for investment and 'private sector—led growth
Sustained growth that raises incomes and extends benefits to the poor is critical for poverty reduction and job creation. Helping countries pursue faster, sustainable growth is a defining theme of Bank support to the MNA region, both through CASs (Djibouti and Morocco, and an interim assistance strategy for the Islamic Republic of Iran) and sources of growth studies (Jordan and Lebanon). To promote private sector development, the Bank helped Tunisia strengthen urban transport capacity while supporting Morocco in privatization and further liberalization of its telecommunications sector. Trade and competitiveness studies for Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tunisia, and the West Bank and Gaza, as well as support for information infrastructure in Morocco and an information technology strategy for Algeria, also underscore the
Middle East and North Africa Fast Facts
Total population: 0.3 billion Population growth: 1.9%
Life expectancy at birth: 68 years Infant mortality per 1,000 births: 44 Female youth illiteracy: 23%
2000	GNI per capita: $2,040
Number of Persons living with HIV/AIDS: 0.4 million
Note: Life expectancy at birth and infant mortality rate per 1,000 births are for 1999, other indicators are for 2000, from the World Development Indicators database. The term gross national income (GNI) is now used instead of gross national product (GNP).
Total FY01 New Commitments Total FY01 Disbursements
IBRD $355.2 million	,	IBRD $666.2 million
IDA $152.3 million	IDA	$123.0 million
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2001: $5.9 billion
Box 4.10 MNA Joins the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN)
With some 25 countries around the world connected to the GDLN, this year saw the opening of the first two GDLN centers in the MNA region, in Jordan and Egypt (with Egypt’s GDLN soon to become fully operational). Plans are under way for a center in Saudi Arabia. Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen have also expressed interest in being connected.
The GDLN provides a platform for developing countries to exchange information. As other MNA economies link to the GDLN, the network offers great potential to become a powerful facility for collaborative information-sharing on issues common to the region, with substantial benefit for effective policymaking.
At the country level, sharing of information among the government, civil society, and interested parties also promotes participation in the development process. By enabling the exchange of experience among countries, the GDLN offers a potentially important vehicle for finding common solutions to problems facing the MNA region.
importance of enhancing the region’s integration with the global economy. Extensive work toward a private sector development strategy for Kuwait offers an example of the Bank’s growing emphasis on private sector development and competitiveness issues in the region.
Gender and cultural issues also affect growth. Empirical evidence increasingly demonstrates that gender inequality contributes significantly to
In fiscal 2001, the World Bank responded rapidly to the unemployment crisis in the West Bank and Gaza through the Emergency Response Program, which supported infrastructure improvements through laborintensive activities, and has already, in its first five months of implementation, created about 180,000 man-days of work
Note Sector classification is on a loan component basis See table 1 1, page 26 a Includes transportation, telecommunications, and water supply and sanitation b Includes mining
dialogue series was launched in fiscal 2001 to help MNA Region staff implement the Bank’s gender policies. The Bank also recognizes that preserving cultural heritage is integral to MNA’s development strategy Efforts in fiscal 2001 included a cultural heritage preservation project in Tunisia and a comprehensive report on cultural heritage preservation in the region
Public sector management and institution building
Institution building, to improve public sector accountability and efficiency, is a key theme of Bank assistance to the MNA region. In fiscal 2001 the Bank helped strengthen the public administration's ability to provide basic social and infrastructure services through, for example, support for long-term education strategies in Djibouti, Morocco, and the Republic of Yemen, and for pension system improvements in Djibouti and the West Bank and Gaza. Other new operations reinforced local public institutional capacity (Morocco and the Republic of Yemen), making public expenditure more efficient. They also pave the way for greater decentralization as well as reliance on civil society and the private sector in planning and delivering public services.
The Bank also supported budgetary systems in Algeria, Jordan, and the Republic of Yemen, for an innovative and comprehensive public sector reform credit Important capacity-building activities were initiated in Egypt in the area of project appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation.
poverty Bank assistance to the region has sought to close the gender gap and mainstream gender concerns in policy dialogue, projects, and economic and sector work. In 2000 over 55 percent of lending operations in MNA addressed gender issues— higher than any other Region and more than double the rate of 10 years ago At the suggestion of the MNA Consultative Council on Gender, a gender
Social -protection and human resource development
Although MNA’s poverty rates are relatively low, other social indicators signal a more serious poverty problem In fiscal 2001 the Bank continued to build knowledge on poverty, through reviews and assessments (Egypt, Morocco, and the West Bank and Gaza). Helping countries address the survival needs of those in society who are unable adequately to
Through the joint efforts of the World Bank and a local civil society organization, women in Egypt are finally getting registered, and gaining access to important social and education services.
Box 4.11 Helping Alleviate Poverty among Egyptian Women: The Power of Partnership
In many of the poorer communities in Egypt, people—particularly women-are not registered at birth, making it impossible for them to access basic rights and services. In fiscal 2001 the Bank’s MNA staff teamed up with an Egyptian civil society organization, the Egyptian Center for Women’s Rights, to support women’s access to identification cards and birth certificates, through the Bank-sponsored Development Marketplace. The project funded some of the costs of Issuing identification cards in the Greater Cairo area and raised awareness among other NGOs, the media, the general public, and the government. As a result of the campaign, women who have received identification cards are filing for and receiving inheritances, registering for literacy classes, voting, and receiving pensions.
help themselves has also been a priority. An Emergency Response Program in the West Bank and Gaza, for example, created labor-intensive emergency employment activities for thousands of persons facing severe economic hardship. The Bank also helped countries design and implement safety nets in fiscal 2001, with an assessment of social protection in Egypt and preparation of a comprehensive regional study of social protection schemes
Rural and community development have emerged as important areas of Bank support, with targeted community development (Lebanon and the West Bank and Gaza), and support for rural infrastructure (Morocco and the Republic of Yemen). Support for expanding access to safe water in the Republic of Yemen is also allowing tremendous savings of time devoted to collecting water—particularly for women and girls, who can instead pursue schooling. New Bank operations in MNA, recognizing the vital role of water management, have supported irrigation improvement (Morocco and the Republic of Yemen), water resource management (Jordan and the Syrian Arab Republic), and agricultural competitiveness assessments (Egypt and Morocco). The Bank also sponsored the Nile Basin Initiative in fiscal 2001 to foster constructive dialogue among the Nile’s 10 riparian states and generate win-win solutions to the problem of Nile water-sharing. In addition, it chaired an important meeting of the International Consortium for Cooperation on the Nile in June 2001.
Helping expand access to education and health services remains a cornerstone of the Bank’s work in supporting poverty reduction. In fiscal 2001 the Bank continued its long-standing commitment to education in MNA with support for education projects in Djibouti, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen. Responding to the government’s concern over the implications of fast-growing university enrollments, the Bank also produced an analysis on rationalizing higher education in the Republic of Yemen. Support in fiscal 2001 for sanitation and solid waste management, meanwhile, will help improve public health and quality of life in the West Bank and Gaza and the Republic of Yemen
Chapter 5
Development Effectiveness
The bottom line for the World Bank is its development effectiveness The independent Operations Evaluation Department (OED) tracks the Bank’s development performance, analyzing the effectiveness of Bank projects, programs, and processes; draws lessons of operational experience, and provides advice to the Board based on evaluations at the project, country, and sector levels. OED also guides evaluation capacity development in client countries Each year, evidence from these evaluations is marshaled to produce a summary report on the Bank’s development effectiveness.
This year’s Annual Review of Development Effectiveness (ARDE) confirms that the Bank’s development performance has improved significantly over the past five years. This improvement is clearly evident at the project level In particular, the quality of IDA’s work in the poorest countries has improved, though further gains are necessary
PROJECT PERFORMANCE IS IMPROVING
The performance of Bank-supported projects has improved markedly and contributed to better development results, as reported in the ARDE. Preliminary results show an increase from 73 percent of closed projects with satisfactory outcomes in fiscal 1999 to
78 percent in fiscal 2000, when weighted by the number of projects (figure 5 1) In addition, 43 percent of the projects resulted in substantial institutional development impact—an increase from 31 percent in 1990-94—and projects with benefits sustainable over the long term rose to 57 percent from 48 percent just two years earlier
The quality of adjustment lending improved steadily and markedly throughout the 1990s, as measured, inter alia, by OED ratings for outcome, sustainability, and institutional development impact (figure
5	2), the poverty and social focus of adjustment lending has also increased substantially over time A retrospective undertaken in fiscal 2001 also found that adjustment lending has become an important developmental instrument that has evolved in tandem with countries’ broader reform agendas, focused increasingly on long-run structural, social, and institutional issues. Further work is under way, including on social impact, conditionality, and fiduciary framework Overall, the increased share of closed projects with satisfactory outcomes reflects the steady improvement in the quality of ongoing projects, as reported by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Created in 1996, QAG has played a key role in improving the development effectiveness of Bank operations by providing managers and staff with real-
Strong partnerships in project supervision pay rich dividends: greater likelihood of development impact, better chance for success of complex project designs, and lower cost of supervision for project financiers. Building effective alliances among the client, stakeholders, and donors has become a growing priority. In the Peru Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, for example, teams from the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (a cofinancier) furnish complementary skills and coordinate their field visits. The supervision teams also interact extensively with local government and communities, which play a significant role in the project’s successful implementation.
Increasing development effectiveness through partnerships is a process of continuous learning. Key factors are a willingness to listen, establishment of common goals and roadmaps to achieve them, and adjustment of work processes in the interest of compatibility. Greater progress in harmonizing donor procedures remains an important challenge in this regard.
Note Weighted by disbursements.
time information on projects’ quality and risk. With sustained effort, the Bank’s portfolio of active projects is now healthier than it has been since the early 1980s. At the end of fiscal 2001 only 12 percent of projects were “at risk” of not achieving their development objectives, compared with more than double that ratio in fiscal 1996. The quality of project preparation and supervision has also improved significantly, as has the Bank’s analytical (economic and sector) work. The improvements over the five-year period, moreover, have been broad-based, and have benefited from heightened efforts to work in consultation and partnership with others (box 5.1).
The Bank has made other advances in improving
development effectiveness The dollar amount of active projects supporting public sector governance and institutional reform—which strongly affect how aid funds are used—has doubled over the past five years, about half of all adjustment loans have had fiscal transparency and anticorruption components The Bank has also substantially strengthened compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies—which promote project sustainability when applied pragmatically—and improved projects’ financial management, with a near quadrupling of financial management specialists and substantial reliance on new Country Financial Accountability Assessments In another crucial yet difficult area, the Bank has launched new efforts to improve monitoring and evaluation of development outcomes; sustained efforts will be required, over several years, for results to become evident. Finally, decentralization of Bank staff to the field is believed to be beneficial. As the number of field offices, country directors in the field, and operations being prepared and supervised by staff in the field have increased, key quality indicators have improved, with strongly supportive client feedback.
ASSESSING COUNTRY PROGRAM PERFORMANCE
To ascertain whether the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) have delivered results on the ground, OED uses three complementary evaluation methods: aggregating performance information on individual lending and nonlending activities; relating the inputs to country assistance programs to their outputs, outcomes, and impacts; and assessing the performance of the Bank against its own policy benchmarks and procedures along with the performance of other actors.
This approach has allowed OED to identify the most important determinants of country program outcomes: borrower commitment and the extent to which Bank strategies, programs, processes, and partnerships have been adapted to the country setting. These findings demonstrate that instruments for assessing ownership, such as stakeholder analysis, should be used more widely than they have been in CAS formulation as well as in the design and execution of policy reforms and development programs.
Analysis of OED data suggests that sound macroeconomic policies and high-quality institutions increase the effectiveness of development investments. The Bank’s research confirms that country
policies have improved during the 1990s, and that overall bilateral and multilateral aid was better targeted to countries endowed with policies that provide a suitable framework for effective development assistance. Conversely, countries with poor enabling environments received less aid (see figure 5.3).
IMPROVEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE IN IDA COUNTRIES
The performance of IDA over recent years has improved. OED conducted a review of the implementation of undertakings under IDA-10, IDA-11, and the first year of IDA-12. These undertakings included (1) sharpening the poverty focus of support for country development, (2) expanding access to social services, fostering broad-based growth, promoting good governance, and integrating gender and environmental considerations into development efforts, and (3) increasing effectiveness through more selective, more thorough, and better-coordinated CASs
OED’s review found that these undertakings were highly relevant and timely They encouraged IDA to move in step with the evolving consensus of the international development community. But they also were extraordinarily demanding for both IDA and its borrowers. Overall, OED found IDA’s implementation of these undertakings to be satisfactory, but with qualifications IDA has strengthened the poverty focus of its analytical work, policy dialogue, and lending. In countries committed to economic reform, it has contributed to increased economic stability, fewer distortions, and improved infrastructure development. But broad-based, job-creating growth remains a challenge. Moreover, IDA was slow to comply with its governance undertakings, although its performance has improved considerably over the past five years. Progress in mainstreaming gender, environmental, and private sector development objectives has proven challenging—reflecting a lack of interest by many countries—and led to the design of new thematic strategies.
IDA project performance has improved steadily over the period (see figure 5 4) Outcomes of completed projects have risen to more than 70 percent satisfactory. Sustainability and institutional development impact also have improved. Much progress can be seen in project-level outcomes as well as in quality indicators coming from QAG assessments.
Overall, the OED review found the development outcomes of IDA programs—influenced by exogenous factors and borrower and partner performance,
Figure 5.3 Poor Performers Experience a Decline in Aid 1992-1994
Aid/GNP (percent)
0 14
in addition to IDA’s own performance—to be partially satisfactory Of importance, going forward, are recent initiatives geared to improving coordination and harmonization of poverty reduction strategies in IDA countries.
SECTOR AND THEMATIC PERFORMANCE IS STARTING TO SHOW RESULTS
The Bank’s move beyond projects toward the higher plane of country strategy has been paralleled by a shift toward improving sector and thematic performance, at both the country and global levels The challenge has been to strengthen the strategic focus and policy content of services within particular sectors and to integrate crosscutting thematic priorities—including poverty, participation, and gender— into the range of Bank activities
The ARDE’s findings suggest that the Bank’s efforts to improve development effectiveness during the past five years are starting to show results, although not uniformly across sectors. OED’s analysis of sector and thematic performance suggests that four factors are associated with successful sector strategies a clear policy framework; an action plan to improve on past performance, a specific program of development assistance at the country and global levels, and a definition of the Bank’s role taking account of partners’ activities
OED’s analysis also confirms that the Bank has strengthened the poverty focus of its operations. The considerable growth of poverty assessment activities, the expansion of social sector lending, the increased decentralization of country assistance management, and the increased focus on governance concerns have contributed to this wholesome trend. But more needs to be done to integrate broad-based poverty reduction strategies into macroeconomic and sector programs and to strengthen poverty monitoring and evaluation
THE BANK IS PROMOTING PARTICIPATION AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The World Bank has made participation a central feature of its development efforts since the mid-1990s. It has expanded its work with regional and local governments m borrowing countries, cultivated new development partners and intensified its engagement with existing ones, and opened dialogue
Box 5.2 OED Uses Participatory Approaches in Evaluation
The participatory consultation process for OED’s evaluation products has included sharing design formats, eliciting information on performance and processes, and disseminating findings to stakeholders through workshops. Here are the highlights:
A joint workshop with the Bank’s research arm, the Development Economics and Data Group, brought together donors, country participants, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and partners from borrowing countries to discuss the approach and design of an evaluation of the CDF.
In conjunction with the initiation of a review of global public goods, an entry workshop of 50 participants discussed issues in financing and evaluation in the areas of environment, health, knowledge, and financial stability.
The Forestry Review conducted workshops at entry, mid-point, and exit that included a wide range of participants from both inside and outside the Bank.
The Environment and Social Funds Reviews engaged in broad stakeholder participation at entry and mid-point in their evaluations.
The Gender Review engaged stakeholders from across regions and numerous partners including bilateral donors, NGOs, client country representatives, the United Nations, and the European Union.
The India Country Assistance Evaluation involved stakeholders across a number of sectors, ministries, and organizations. Workshops have been part of OED’s dissemination strategy for the ARDE, Aid Coordination Study, and Forestry Review, among others.
with civil society Participation is the cornerstone of initiatives such as the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and, more recently, of Poverty Reduction Strategies, OED also uses participatory approaches in evaluation (see box 5.2).
The participatory process has involved a wide range of interactions, on many fronts, between the Bank and its clients and partners, but few objectives are more important than institutional development. Institutional development has become a focus of Bank lending in its own right, increasing from 18 percent of total lending in 1996 to 30 percent in 2000
Community participation has become especially important to the Bank’s efforts to build lasting institutions Since 1992 the percentage of projects with community participation has increased from 41 percent to 67 percent (see figure 5 5) OED has found that this participation helped beneficiaries tai-
lor projects to better meet their needs, gave people a sense of pride, control, and ownership, made projects more sensitive to issues such as domestic violence, increased transparency in decisionmaking and contracting, fostered cooperation among people who
had not traditionally worked together; and led to better development results.
MANAGEMENT IMPLICATIONS
The results of OED’s studies have three implications for corporate management First, Bank strategies, programs, and budgeting processes need to be strongly linked to the achievement of results consistent with the Bank’s mission and comparative advantage. Second, the Bank needs to strike an appropriate balance between knowledge management and knowledge creation—at both the country and global levels—and establish monitoring and tracking processes to strengthen the quality and coherence of its knowledge activities Finally, the Bank must continuously assess its comparative advantage so as to improve its development effectiveness and to withdraw from activities better carried out by other development partners
Chapter 6
Partnerships for Development
Coming out of the World Bank’s renewal since 1997, partnership has become a way of doing business for the Bank The Bank is investing considerably in collaborative efforts, albeit with greater selectivity over the past year Such investment has meant intensified relationships with client governments and shareholders—the Bank’s foremost partners—as well as with the Bank’s main institutional partners, and broad efforts to improve collaboration with other actors in development, such as civil society and the business sector
At the country level, collaboration with high-level government, parliaments, the private sector, civil society, and multilateral and bilateral donors has intensified and broadened. The principles underlying the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF)—a holistic approach to development, stronger country ownership, more strategic partnerships, greater accountability, and focus on development results—are guiding the preparation process of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in low-income countries Partnership is key among internal partners to build national consensus—crucial for sustainability—and among external partners to align support around the country’s strategy. Alignment is aimed at reducing wasteful competition and overlap among donors and at promoting learning, selectivity, transparency, and accountability
The Bank is also entering into global partnership initiatives to address issues at the transnational level Provision of global public goods requires the joining of mandates and capabilities of many organizations. For example. United Nations (UN) agencies have a mandate in several key global public goods areas, such as communicable disease control, while partnership with the IMF is central to the Bank’s role in public goods related to global economic governance, trade, and financial stability. Partnership with other institutions, multilateral and bilateral donors, foundations, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and the private sector is also crucial. The Bank’s Strategic Framework for poverty reduction, articulated in fiscal 2001, emphasizes five areas for Bank support at the global level communicable diseases,
environmental commons, trade and integration, international financial architecture, and the information and knowledge revolution
INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERS
International Monetary Fund. Collaboration with the IMF has assumed new vigor Intense partnership through a Joint Implementation Committee resulted in substantial progress on debt relief and PRSPs in fiscal 2001, the two Boards approved debt relief for 16 countries under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and discussed Full or Interim PRSPs of 32 countries A first-time joint visit by the heads of the two institutions to Africa, where the majority of HIPC-PRSP work has been concentrated, signaled the same high degree of partnership In another area of momentum, 23 countries participated in the joint Financial Sector Assessment Program, which flags vulnerabilities in countries' financial sectors (see also page 57). In line with the division of labor between the IMF and the Bank— and with a view to taking better advantage of the complementarity between the two institutions—each institution concentrates on its primary areas of responsibility and competence. The IMF leads the dialogue with country authorities on macroeconomic issues, and the Bank, the dialogue on social and structural issues
United Nations. Bank cooperation with the U N., focused on poverty reduction and investment in people, dates back to the inception of the two institutions The international development goals agreed on at U.N. global conferences in the 1990s as a frame of reference for that institution’s mission underscore the all-encompassing nature of the Bank-U N partnership. In fiscal 2001 the Bank helped prepare the General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS, and the International Conference on Financing for Development, a major event scheduled for early
2002.	Operational collaboration is also significant, for example on HIV/AIDS projects with the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS), food security projects with the Food and Agriculture Organization, and support for PRSP preparation with other agencies. A U.N. agency internal learning group meets regularly with the Bank on the CDF In the past year Mr Wolfensohn has also participated in high-level U.N meetings.
Multilateral development banks (MDBs). Also stronger in recent years has been partnership across MDBs—the World Bank and the four regional development banks, namely, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Intensified coordination at all levels includes regular meetings of MDB presidents, who in February 2001 agreed on poverty reduction as a joint objective and on common development principles echoing those of the CDF A particular challenge for MDBs—often the most important external partners for poorer countries—is the harmonizing of policies and procedures. Several technical working groups have been established to work on harmonization and convergence in the way MDBs work To avoid duplication and enhance effectiveness, the Bank has signed Memoranda of Understanding with AfDB and IADB, respectively, while one with ADB is under preparation. A protocol on supporting countries preparing PRSPs was agreed on among MDBs and the IMF
The European Union (EU). Also strong is the Bank’s partnership with the EU, which accounts for 60 percent of total official development assistance The EU is a major political player, trading partner, and source of foreign investment for the developing world. Cooperation covers support to Central and East European countries (EU accession), the Commonwealth of Independent States; Bosnia and Herzegovina (successfully raising funds for its $5 1 billion economic recovery program); and Kosovo, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Balkan reconstruction through a Joint European Commission (EC)-World Bank Office for South East Europe in Brussels The Bank Group has developed in detail, and expects to sign shortly, a Framework Agreement with the EC on cofinancing and trust funds, aimed at streamlining administrative arrangements for a broad range of financial partnerships in the future. The EC also supports
the HIPC Initiative and PRSP Programs, and has committed to cofinance the new Poverty Reduction Support Credits and contribute to a new Bank-managed multidonor trust fund on public expenditure management. Collaboration on global-level issues extends to the CDF, the Global Environmental Facility, the Asia-Europe Meeting Trust Fund, governance, anticorruption, and climate change.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Partnership with the OECD has strengthened considerably in recent years. Collaboration with the organization’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) has been especially important DAC provides a forum for OECD members to achieve, as bilateral donors, greater coherence and convergence in their development programs DAC members—which together contributed over $53 billion in bilateral aid in 2000—have significantly strengthened their poverty focus over the past year (by adopting the DAC Guidelines on Poverty Reduction). In addition, they have expressed an intention to align aid programs within the PRSP framework and to untie their aid to least-developed countries Beyond low-income countries, the Bank collaborates with OECD on a broad agenda including trade, environment, corporate governance, anticorruption, and the digital divide Objectives are to minimize duplication of effort, maximize synergies, and learn from each other.
THEMATIC PARTNERSHIPS
Communicable diseases. With three million people a year lost to AIDS, two million to tuberculosis, and over a million to malaria, partnerships to control the mounting threat to development from communicable diseases have assumed a heightened urgency As HIV/AIDS continues to spread, global collaboration becomes imperative (box 6 1). The Bank has also been partnering with affected countries, the World Health Organization (WHO), bilateral donors, and NGOs through the Stop Tuberculosis Initiative, to mobilize over $125 million toward research for new drugs and vaccines and expanded access to existing drugs Another important initiative is Roll Back Malaria, an African-led initiative launched by the Bank, WHO, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) m 1998 to help mobilize
resources for the fight against malaria. An important public-private partnership is the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, already improving access to existing childhood vaccines while accelerating the development of new ones.
Child labor. The International Labour Organisation, UNICEF, and the World Bank have recently launched a Cooperative Research Program in the campaign against child labor. Under this effort the Developing New Strategies for Understanding Children's Work and Its Impact Project aims to improve child labor data collection and analysis and to help developing countries design appropriate interventions. This project allows the three agencies to collaborate at the technical level to address issues of common concern and to exploit each agency’s comparative advantage in order to provide sound advice to countries in the area of child labor.
Trade. Particularly with globalization, partnerships to help developing countries create—and take advantage of—new trade opportunities are becoming crucial. The Bank has been working with many multilateral and bilateral agencies (the World Trade Organization, IMF, the International Trade Center, UNDP, and the U.N. Conference on Trade and Development) under the Integrated Framework (IF) Program created in 1996 to enhance trade-related technical assistance to developing countries. The IF has recently been redefined to ensure better integration of trade with national development strategies.
In addition, the Bank engages in a regular dialogue with the International Confederation of Federal Trade Unions on a wide range of issues, including Bank economic and social policies, core labor standards, and country-level experience with development programs.
Environment. Partners are vital to helping the Bank meet its environmental goals and commitments to global objectives such as reducing hunger (box 6.2). In fiscal 2001 the Bank teamed up with Conservation International and the Global Environment Facility to launch a Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund. The fund will protect highly threatened “biodiversity hot-spots,” also helping poor people whose survival depends on the biodiversity. Also in fiscal 2001, the World Commission on Dams, initiated by the Bank and the
Only with concerted effort can the world hope to win the fight against HIV/AIDS. Significant as the outstanding agenda is, there is reason for hope:
□	More governments than ever before have confronted HIV/AIDS publicly over the past year, displaying leadership and commitment, followed by action.
□	Global support has grown, with front-page coverage in periodicals, targeted campaigns, more resources, and U.N. General Assembly and Security Council resolutions on HIV/AIDS.
□	A U.N. General Assembly Special Session held in June 2001 renewed global commitment to cooperation amid a heightened awareness that funding from all sources needs to increase substantially for the spread of HIV/AIDS to be halted by 2015—a goal agreed on at the session, to be incorporated into the Millennium Development Goals.
□	Following negotiations with UNAIDS cosponsors—including the Bank—under the Accelerating Access Initiative, manufacturers of HIV/AIDS drugs have reduced their prices by 90 percent.
□	The Bank is a founding member and supporter, through the Development Grant Facility, of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI). IAVI is promoting the development of HIV/AIDS vaccines for developing countries.
□	The Bank has worked with UNAIDS and the International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa to help several African countries prepare projects under the $500 million MultiCountry HIV/AIDS Program (seven of these projects were approved in fiscal 2001). Similar support to Caribbean nations is benefiting from collaboration with UNAIDS, the Pan American Health Organization, WHO, and other regional partners. The Bank has also worked closely with the IMF and UNAIDS to help countries integrate HIV/AIDS support into HIPC and PRSP Programs.
□	The International AIDS Economic Network—a partnership of the Bank, UNAIDS, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and the EU —provides data, tools, and analysis for compassionate, cost-effective responses to the epidemic to thousands of researchers and practitioners worldwide.
Box 6.2 Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
Since 1971, the Bank has provided strong support for the CGIAR—a network of 16 international agricultural research centers that mobilize cutting-edge science to reduce hunger and poverty in developing countries, improve health, and protect the environment.
In fiscal 2001 CGIAR developed high-protein, miracle corn to help prevent malnutrition—winning the Millennium World Food Prize—and a vaccine for East Coast Fever, with spillover benefits for malaria and cancer research.
Partnerships for Development
World Conservation Union, launched its landmark report—Dams and Development. A New Framework for Decision-Making, the Bank is now working with its clients to see how the report’s findings can be used to improve performance. Other collaborative efforts in recent years are helping countries save forests, better prepare for natural disasters, and address climate change (see page 21 on the Prototype Carbon Fund).
Governance. The Bank has, since the mid-1990s, given high priority to issues of corruption and governance, which hurt poor people the most. Collaboration with MDBs takes place through a Working Group on Governance and Anticorruption. Partnership with UNDP complements Bank contributions, close collaboration is promoting efficient use of resources and reducing unnecessary duplication. The Bank has also been active in promoting corporate governance, particularly since the 1997—98 Asian crisis when weak disclosure practices and shareholder rights hurt investors A Global Corporate Governance Forum in March 2001, established jointly with the OECD, aims to address countries’ corporate governance weaknesses, and thereby improve their investment climate
Private sector. The Bank works closely with public and private partners on programs supporting private sector investment and infrastructure Resources contributed by partners are approaching $200 million annually Programs aim to promote an enabling environment for private sector development and to empower poor people through improved delivery of services, for example, in the area of microfinance (see box 6.3). In one example, the Digital Opportunity Task Force—a Group of Eight initiative—aims at bridging the digital divide Governments, international organizations, the private sector, and nonprofit organizations are working together to improve regulatory and network readiness, connectivity and access, and human capacity The Cities Alliance offers another example of joint commitment, the Alliance’s target of improving the living conditions of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 was incorporated in the recently adopted U N Millennium Declaration. Diverse issues have attracted a coalition of dynamic partners around the Clean Air Initiative. The effort in Latin America has come to be seen as a model in mobiliz-
ing sustainable resources from the private sector, public sector, and local leadership, with plans for replication in African, East European, and Asian cities. Another area of public-private partnership relates to the World Bank Institute’s (WBI’s) efforts to develop capacity-building programs linked to lending operations on HIV/AIDS, where companies are helping to inventory best practices and programs toward establishing a platform for knowledge sharing.
Knowledge and information. Combined with information and communications technologies, knowledge is a critical engine for development and for empowering poor people. Low rates of physical connectivity, inadequate skills, and weak policies sharply constrain access by poor countries, however. The Bank is working with a variety of partners to help countries develop appropriate legal and regulatory environments, support education through programs that explicitly focus on global knowledge linkages (see box 6.4); encourage investment in information infrastructure, and support a network of global knowledge centers, such as the CGIAR. The Bank’s development research work increasingly involves partners, for example through extensive worldwide consultations in preparation of the World Development Report (WDR) 2000/2001 and the World Development Indicators. An important knowledge partnership that in fiscal 2001 became an independent organization is the Global Development Network (GDN), which links research institutes around the world, now with a self-governing body including representatives from all regions as well as the Bank and UNDP, GDN is helping to foster world-class local knowledge for world-class local solutions. The WBI also helps further the Bank’s knowledge agenda, working with many partners to develop and deliver learning material, and build knowledge networks. Reliance on local partners is an important feature of the Bank’s learning and research efforts.
PARTNERSHIP WITH CIVIL SOCIETY
The Bank deepened its commitment to partnerships with civil society organizations (CSOs) in fiscal 2001. In particular, the Bank placed an emphasis on working with a wider spectrum of CSOs, including international development NGOs, foundations, community groups, professional associations, trade
unions, and faith-based organizations. Whether to protect forests and promote new vaccines through global partnerships or to help deliver basic social services through specific regional, country, or local initiatives, CSOs have become critical allies in designing innovative operations, implementing solutions, and monitoring results.
The Bank has been consulting widely with CSOs for many years. In fiscal 2001, through face-to-face consultations in each of the Bank’s six operational Regions as well as via the Internet, the Bank sought the perspectives of CSOs on a forthcoming environment strategy and on revisions to its information disclosure policy. The NGO-Bank Committee agreed in December 2000 to create a new Bank-Civil Society Global Forum, which would bring together a cross-section of CSOs seeking dialogue and partnership with the Bank on urgent thematic issues The proposed forum would recognize the growing role and expertise of civil society in development and the need to engage a more diverse set of actors
CGAP is a partnership of the Bank and 27 other donors and practitioners to help build a robust microfinance industry serving the world’s poor. CGAP builds badly needed institutional capacity by providing technical tools, research, training, and advisory services to microfinance institutions, donor agencies, and governments. CGAP also invests in microfinance organizations.
In fiscal 2001 CGAP stepped up its poverty focus—in part by researching microfinance innovations that serve the needs of the poorest clients—and considerably expanded the scope of its training hubs in Africa, Asia, and Europe. It also continued to build its Microfinance Gateway, an Internet-based platform now offering interactive online services (such as contracting with auditors) to thousands of stakeholders worldwide.
Box 6.4 Selected World Bank Knowledge Partnerships
■	Information for Development Program provides seed grants for innovative Information Technology applications to development challenges http://www.lnfodev.org @
■	Global Development Learning Network is an interactive network of multiple partners using distance-learning centers to help countries share knowledge and build capacity http://www.gdln.org @
■	World Links for Development supports connectivity and helps teachers in developing countries with the use of technology in education http://www.worldbank.org/worldllnks @
■	Africa Virtual University Is a “university without walls” using new information and communication technologies to offer degree and nondegree interactive learning opportunities http://www.avu.org (§)
■	Development Gateway is an online information portal helping communities, organizations, and individuals work together to reduce poverty http://www.developmentgateway.org ©
■	Global Knowledge Partnership brings together public, private, and nonprofit resources to promote broad access to knowledge and information http://www.gtobalknowledge.org @
■	Development Forum promotes online discussions, worldwide, about development and poverty reduction http://www.worldbank.org/devforum @





1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries IBRD's mam goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries IBRD’s ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals IBRD’s objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries The majority of IBRD's outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U S dollars, euro (and its national currency units), and Japanese yen IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expense in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements of major currencies compared to IBRD’s reporting currency, the U S dollar The fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not impact IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity
Lending commitments in FY 2001 stabilized at $10.5 billion, slightly below the FY 2000 level of $10 9 billion, after a period of high demand for adjustment loans in FY 1999 and 1998
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management’s practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to
augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and grants from net income to support developmental activities
FY 2001 net income was $1,489 million, $502 million lower than the preceding year This reduction in net income correspondingly reduced IBRD’s return on equity and net return on average earning assets The major reason for the decline in net income was an increase in the loan loss provision expense as a result of nonaccrual events, and deterioration in the quality of the accrual loan portfolio This increase in expense was partially offset by income of $345 million recognized as a result of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standard No 133 and International Accounting Standard No 39
On August 2, 2001, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $618 million of FY 2001 net income to general reserves, and recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the transfers of $371 million from unallocated net income and $31 million from Surplus to other development purposes For FY 2002, a decrease from 15 basis points to 5 basis points in the interest waiver was approved for old loans For new loans, the interest waiver of 25 basis points was maintained FY 2002 waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges were also maintained at the FY 2001 level
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America and International Accounting Standards (together referred to in this document as the 'reported basis’) Effective July
1,	2000, IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its related amendments Concurrently, IBRD also early adopted International Accounting Standard No 39, “Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement”. These standards are collectively termed “FAS 133" for purposes of this document
FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recorded on the balance sheet and reported at fair value IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognized immediately in earnings
Although these standards allow hedge accounting for certain qualifying hedging relationships, when these criteria are applied to IBRD's financial instrument portfolios, certain of the hedged instruments would be earned at fair value, while other similar hedged instruments would be carried at amortized cost Upon adoption of the new standards, IBRD elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships While IBRD
believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs
Management Reporting
For management reporting purposes, IBRD prepares current value financial statements
IBRD manages its balance sheet by making extensive use of derivatives to manage the interest rate and currency risks associated with its financial assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/ liability management of individual positions and portfolios, and to reduce borrowing costs
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more acute than for many other financial institutions. FAS 133 adjustments may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting
IBRD believes that a current value presentation better reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments The basis for the current value model is the present value of expected cash flows based on an appropriate discount rate and incorporating market data The current value financial statements do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD’s estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering interest rate, currency and credit risks. These balance sheets are presented with a reconciliation to the reported accounts at June 30, 2001.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, is presented in Table 2.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 13
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD The current value amount of loans incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of all loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted by the applicable market yield curves for IBRD's funding cost, plus IBRD's lending spread, adjusted for interest waivers
The current value also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows To recognize the risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
For purposes of the current value presentation, the $676 million adjustment, reflecting the mark from the credit assessment on the loan porfolio, is presented as part of the adjustment relating to current value on the income statement.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at market value or at their estimated fair values. Market value is based on market quotations, instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information
The adjustment to current value of $51 million moves the mark-to-market unrealized gains recongized in Operating Income under the reported basis and includes them as part of the adjustment relating to current value on the income statement
Borrowings
The current value of borrowings includes the value of the debt securities and the financial derivative instruments associated with the borrowings portfolio. The current value is calculated based on market data using market-based methodologies
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2001, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $314,969 million to borrowers in 129 countries A summary of cumulative lending and the portfolio position is contained in Table 3
Table 3: Lending Status at June 30,
a	Net of cancellations
b Multicurrency pool ban repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement All other amounts are based on US dollar equivalents at the time of receipt c Includes loans approved, but not effective
The amount of loans outstanding at June 30, 2001 was $1,238 million lower than that at June 30,2000 The decrease is primarily attnbutable to negative currency translation adjustments, which exceeded the increase in net disbursements. The undisbursed balance was reduced by cancellations and currency translation adjustments, along with disbursements
During FY 2001, commitments of new loans to member countries stabilized at $10,487 million, down slightly from $10,919 million m FY 2000 Commitments for FY 1999 and FY 1998 were substantially higher as IBRD responded to a higher demand for adjustment lending.
As in the preceding fiscal year, Latin America accounted for the largest share of commitments m FY 2001 Figure 1 presents the regional composition of commitments for FY 2001 and FY2000
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit At June 30, 2001, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated loan loss provision) totaled $115,390 million, equal to 55% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended The five principles are described in Box 2 Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing a loan often extends over several years However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters in Turkey and Central America, as well as the financial crisis in Asia
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists) With certain exceptions, each loan must be approved by IBRD’s Executive Directors (See Box 3, Adaptable Program Loans and Learning and Innovation Loans)
(1) IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterpnses in the territories of member countries A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date
(ii) IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries Projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness
(111) In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country’s economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations
(iv)	IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)	The use of loan proceeds is supervised IBRD makes arrangements to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During project implementation, IBRD staff with experience in the sector or the country involved periodically visit project sites to review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise After completion, projects are evaluated by an independent IBRD unit and the findings reported directly to the Executive Directors to determine the extent to which the project’s major objectives were met Similar appraisal, approval, supervision and evaluation procedures apply m the case of IBRD adjustment and other non-project loans.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories' investment or adjustment lending Historically, most IBRD loans have been for investment projects or programs Figure 2 presents IBRD lending by category for the last seven fiscal years, as a percentage of total loans approved
Current operating guidelines state that adjustment lending, excluding debt and debt-service reduction loans, will normally not exceed 25% of total IBRD lending This guideline was established with the understanding that it was likely to be exceeded if world economic conditions worsened This guideline is not a rigid limit, but rather a trigger for a reevaluation of planned lending
In FY 2001, adjustment commitments accounted for 38% of total commitments (41%—FY 2000) As a result of country-specific developments and adverse market conditions, adjustment commitments in FY
1999	accounted for 63% of total commitments in that year. The Executive Directors are aware that the guideline has been exceeded in recent years, and may possibly be exceeded again in subsequent years.
IBRD has several lending instruments that support investment activities, either discrete projects or programs of investment Investment lending committed for FY 2001 totaled $6,550 million ($6,493 million— FY 2000, $8,245 million—FY 1999) Box 3 presents a description of each investment lending instrument and a breakdown of IBRD’s investment lending approved in FY 2000 and in each of the two preceding fiscal years
Adjustment Lending
IBRD also makes adjustment loans designed to support the introduction of basic changes in economic, financial and other policies of key importance for the economic development of member countries Disbursements on these loans are conditioned on certain performance objectives. Adjustment lending committed for FY 2001 totaled $3,937 million ($4,426 million—FY 2000, $13,937 million—FY 1999 ) Box 4 provides a description of each adjustment lending instrument and the details of IBRD’s adjustment lending approved in FY 2001 and each of the two preceding fiscal years
Enclave Lending
On rare occasions, IBRD will lend for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized At June 30, 2001, IBRD had $166 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects ($170 million—June 30, 2000) No new enclave lending was approved during FY 2001
Financial Terms of Loans
As of June 30, 2001, IBRD offers new loans with single currency loan terms which may carry either a variable or fixed spread
In previous years, IBRD has offered loans with a variety of other financial terms including multicurrency pool loans and fixed-rate single currency loans Multicurrency pool loans represented the only available loan product during the period 1980 to 1993 A variable-spread single currency loan product was introduced in 1993 and a fixed-rate single currency loan product was introduced in 1995 In 1999, the fixed-spread single currency loan was introduced which gives borrowers access to a range of embedded risk management alternatives
The current product mix is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capability Most variable spread single currency loans mature over a period that ranges from fifteen to twenty years and carry a three-to five-year grace period for principal. While fixed-
spread loans offer more flexible repayment terms, this flexibility is subject to limits aimed at maintaining a similar average loan maturity across all loan products for a given borrower
For most products in its portfolio, IBRD charges a lending rate composed of its average cost of borrowings plus a spread Until July 31, 1998, that spread was 50 basis points. However, during FY 1999 the lending spread was increased to 75 basis points for new loans Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In addition, most loans carry a commitment charge of 75 basis points on undisbursed amounts However, the fixed-spread loans carry a commitment charge of 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points thereafter
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect for each of the previous ten fiscal years Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers who have made full payments of principal and charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect for each of the last twelve fiscal years All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their loans (except on nonstandard single currency loans such as Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans) Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial State-ments-Note C
Table 4: Loan Charge Waivers
Basis points
a Oil loans to eligible borrowers
Multicurrency Pool Loans
IBRD no longer offers multicurrency pool loan terms as of March 1, 2001, in view of the substantial decline in demand for this product and the administrative cost of continuing to offer them Moreover, with the introduction of the fixed-spread loan, borrowers can replicate the main characteristics of the multicurrency pool loan and also obtain access to a range of embedded risk management tools The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool Pursuant to a policy
Specific Investment Loans fund the creation, rehabilitation and maintenance of economic, social and institutional infrastructure
Emergency Recovery Loans restore assets and productivity immediately after a major emergency (such as war, civil disturbance, or natural disaster) that seriously disrupts a member country’s economy
Adaptable Program Loans provide phased support for longterm development programs through a series of operations. Succeeding operations are committed on the basis of satisfactory performance on agreed milestones, indicators, periodic reviews, and the evaluation of implementation progress and emerging needs Authority for approval of subsequent adaptable program loans under programs approved by the Executive Directors is with IBRD’s management, subject to oversight and review by the Executive Directors
Financial Intermediary Loans provide long-term resources to local financial institutions, helping to develop sound financial sector policies and institutions, promoting the operational efficiency of those institutions, and improving the terms of credit available to enterprises and households. No loans of this type were committed during FY 2001.
Sector Investment and Maintenance Loans aim to bring sector expenditures, policies and performance in line with a country’s development priorities
Technical Assistance Loans are used to build institutional capacity in the borrowing country. They are used to build capacity in entities concerned with promoting economic and social development, as well as public sector reform
Learning and Innovation Loans support small, pilot-type investment and capacity-building projects that, if successful, could lead to larger projects that would mainstream the learning and results of the loan. These loans do not exceed $5 million and are normally implemented over two to three years Approvals of specific individual loans are at the management level rather than at the Executive Director level
Structural Adjustment Loans support specific policy changes and institutional reforms These loans require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and policy actions that can be monitored on a specific schedule
Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans are fast-disbursing loans which provide support to countries facing a sectoral or economy-wide crisis with a substantial structural dimension These instruments were introduced in FY 1999 No loans of this type were committed during FY 2001
Sector Adjustment Loans support comprehensive policy changes and institutional reforms in major sectors They also require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and its implementation, and a specific program that can be monitored
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans support governmental programs of structural and social reforms that involve continuous, incremental policy changes and institution building through a series of loans These loans rely on a solid foundation of completed or parallel analytic and advisory work in related areas. The first of these instruments was approved in FY 2000
Debt Reduction Loans help eligible, highly-indebted member countries reduce commercial debt and debt service to a manageable level as part of a medium-term financing plan IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 19992001.
Rehabilitation Loans support government policy reform programs to assist the private sector where foreign exchange is required for urgent rehabilitation of key infrastructure and productive facilities IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 1999-2001.
established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U S dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
The lending rate on these cost pass-through loans is vanable, adjusted every six months to reflect the previous semester's average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund these loans, weighted by the average currency composition of the pool IBRD adds its lending spread to that average cost.
Single Currency Pool Loans
In FY 1997, IBRD offered borrowers the option to elect to modify their currency choice by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. Those options expired on July 1, 1998 Single currency pool terms are not available for new commitments. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans
Single Currency Loans Variable-Spread Loans
IBRD currently offers variable-spread single currency loans in U S dollars, Japanese yen, euro, pounds sterling and Swiss francs, and will consider borrower requests for loans in other currencies Variable-spread loans carry a lending rate that is reset semi-annually The lending rate consists of a base rate, which is LIBOR for the applicable currency plus a spread The spread consists of (a) IBRD’s weighted average cost margin for funding for the preceding semester allocated to these loans relative to LIBOR; and [b] IBRD's standard lending spread. These variable spread loans are designed to pass IBRD’s funding spread to LIBOR through to its borrowers This spread is set every six months, in January and July. At June 30, 2001, 95.8% (96 1% at June 30, 2000) of outstanding variable-spread loans were denominated in U.S dollars.
Non-standard Loans
In response to the global financial crises, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard single currency loan terms during FY 1998 and FY 1999. These loans carry a six-month U S dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges
Subsequent to the disbursement of these loans, during FY 1999, IBRD introduced a new type of loan tailored to be part of a broad financial support package for borrowing countries These special structural and sector adjustment loans also carry non-standard single currency loan terms As of June 30, 2001, IBRD had approved a total of $5,051 million of special structural or sector adjustment loans At June 30, 2001, $4,301 million of this amount had been disbursed, and $250 million had been cancelled. Their terms include a six-
month U.S dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a minimum fixed spread, currently set at 400 basis points, which may vary for new loans over time depending on IBRD’s overall risk-bearing capacity and market conditions These loans have a five-year maturity with a three-year grace period on principal, and a front-end fee of one percent of the principal amount payable on effectiveness. Special structural and sector adjustment loans are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges No new loans with these terms were approved in FY 2001.
Fixed-Spread Loans
During the first quarter of FY 2000, IBRD introduced the fixed-spread single currency loan, designed in response to borrowers’ desire for more flexible financial products. Fixed-spread loans can be tailored to meet the needs of individual projects and programs and support borrowers’ debt management strategies Fixed-spread loans are currently offered in U S dollars, Japanese yen and euro. Requests for other currencies will also be considered.
These fixed-spread loans carry an interest rate of LIBOR, plus a spread that is fixed at loan signing for the life of the loan. At June 30, 2001, the fixed spread was 55 basis points for U.S. dollar and euro denominated loans and 50 basis points for Japanese yen. The fixed spread consists of (a) IBRD’s projected funding cost margin relative to U S dollar LIBOR, with a basis swap adjustment for non-U.S. dollar loans; (b) a market risk premium of 5 basis points; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread
The fixed-spread offered will be evaluated from time to time and may be reset when market changes warrant Fixed-spread loans carry IBRD’s standard loan charges for new commitments. In addition, these loans carry a commitment charge risk premium of 10 basis points on undisbursed loan amounts for the first four years of the loan’s life This premium, along with the market risk premium in the interest spread, compensates IBRD for funding and refinancing risk
Borrowers selecting this product may change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan and have more flexibility in selecting loan repayment terms. Effective February 1, 2000, a borrower may choose to include the following conversion features in the loan contract.
•	option to change the currency at market rates of all or a part of the undisbursed or disbursed loan amounts (for a fee),
•	option to fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for rate fixings for up to the full maturity of the loan, and for amounts up to the outstanding loan amount (without charge),
•	option to unfix or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
•	option to cap or collar the floating interest rate on all or a part of disbursed loan amounts, with a market premium (for a fee)
Transaction fees range from 12 5 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount Repayment terms are more flexible than for prior products, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles m a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a bullet repayment or a customized schedule Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed
Fixed-rate Loans
As of December 1, 1999, fixed-rate single currency loans were no longer available for new commitments, because the introduction of the fixed spread loan, with rate fixing options, provided borrowers with similar, but more flexible methods of fixing the interest rate on their loans Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates that are set on specified semiannual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months The lending rate consists of a base rate, which reflects market interest rates for the applicable currency on the rate-fixing date for the equivalent loan maturity, plus a spread The spread
consists of (a) IBRD’s funding cost margin relative to the base rate for these loans, (b) a risk premium to compensate IBRD for market risks it incurs in funding these loans; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread
Table 5 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan portfolio by loan product For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product, IBRD also approved the offer of new derivative products for its borrowers to respond to their needs for access to better risk management tools These products assist borrowers in hedging their risks on individual loans made to them by IBRD These derivative products include interest rate and currency swaps, and interest rate caps and collars On a case-by-case basis, commodity-linked swaps may also be considered
Each request from a borrower for execution of a derivative product must include an explanation of its suitability for risk management purposes IBRD will pass through the market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features (and 37 5 basis points for commodity swaps) These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions IBRD is in the process of making these instruments available
a	Of which single currency loans with non-standard terms represent	$11,301	million outstanding ($10,801 million—June 30, 2000 and
$9,035 million—June 30, 1999) At June 30, 2001, $500 million was undisbursed b	Includes fixed-rate single currency loans for which the rate had not yet been fixed at fiscal year-end
*	Indicates amounts less than 0 5%
**	May differ from the sum of individual figures due to rounding
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD In exceptional cases, IBRD may offer enclave guarantees for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans IBRD has also provided guarantees of securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks, generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage The three basic types of guarantees offered are described in Box 5.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government Guarantees are priced within a limited range to reflect the risks involved, and preparation fees may be charged where there are excep-
tional costs involved for IBRD IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans
IBRD may provide partial risk guarantees for export-oriented projects in an IDA-only country (enclave guarantees) if the project is expected to generate foreign exchange outside the country, and IBRD determines that the country will have adequate foreign exchange to meet its obligations under the counterguarantee if the guarantee is called. A project covered by an enclave guarantee includes security arrangements with appropriate risk mitigation measures, such as offshore revenue escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD, to minimize IBRD’s exposure and the risk of a call on the guarantee. Special charges apply to these types of guarantees The commitment of enclave guarantees is initially limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million As of June 30, 2001 no enclave guarantees were outstanding
IBRD’s exposure at June 30, 2001 on its guarantees (measured as their present value in terms of their first
•	Partial risk guarantees cover debt-service defaults on a loan that may result from nonperformance of government obligations These are defined in the contracts negotiated between the government or a government-sponsored entity and the private company responsible for implementing the project The IBRD guarantee is limited to backing the government’s obligations, the obligations of the private company contained in the project agreements are not covered and thus the private lenders assume the risk of nonperformance by the private company
•	Partial credit guarantees are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its instrumentalities This approach may be most appropriate when the lenders are not willing to accept the sovereign risk of the host government for a term long enough to meet the needs of the project By guaranteeing later maturities, such partial credit guarantees help induce the market to extend the term to the maximum risk it can bear
•	Policy-based guarantees are partial credit guarantees that cover a portion of debt-service on a borrowing by an eligible member country from private foreign creditors in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms. These guarantees are an extension of partial credit guarantees for projects The guaranteed portion of the debt-service could consist of a combination of interest and principal payments, but the actual structure is determined on a case-by-case basis Eligibility for IBRD adjustment lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for this type of instrument The terms of this instrument are the same as project-based partial credit guarantees Maturity and level of fees will be standard if the guarantee is made in situations comparable to those under which a structural adjustment loan would be made, however, if the guarantee is made in connection with a special structural adjustment loan, then it will be at special structural adjustment loan equivalent terms This guarantee product was launched in FY 1999. Initially, IBRD is proceeding with a pilot program of up to $2,000 million. As of June 30, 2001, $409 million had been approved Once the $2,000 million level is reached, the Executive Directors will review the program
Other Activities
Consultation In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, loan operations There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries m improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training• To assist its developing member countries, IBRD—through the World Bank Institute—
provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD
Trust Fund Administration IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note I
Investment Management IBRD has leveraged its treasury management capacity and infrastructure to provide investment management services to an external institution for a fee These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps, asset-backed securities, and futures and options contracts pertaining to such obligations
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD’s activities and m the management of its financial positions It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of
liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings should be kept at or above a specified prudential minimum. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year The FY 2002 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set $20.1 billion, representing a $1.7 billion increase over that for FY 2001 IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Liquid assets are held m three distinct sub-portfolios, stable, operational, and discretionary, each with different risk profiles, funding, structures and performance benchmarks
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. The discretionary portfolio was gradually liquidated over the first half of FY 2000. This discretionary portfolio was not used during FY 2001. Figure 3 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2001 and FY 2000, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits
At the end of FY 2001, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $24,181 million, little changed from FY 2000 This portfolio is largely composed of U S dollars, with the currency composition of the operational portfolio varying the most as a result of the cash flows generated by disbursements, debt-service payments, new borrowings and reserves conversions
The performance of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2001 compared to FY 2000 is presented in Table 7. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits
Table 7: Liquid Asset Portfolio Performance
Annualized Financial Return (%)
FY2001 FY 2000
The higher returns in FY 2001 are due primarily to higher interest earnings in FY 2001, as well as higher mark-to-market gains resulting from a falling U.S. dollar interest rate environment. Although rates decreased significantly in the latter half of FY 2001, interest income from IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio was not impacted immediately by the full effect of the decline because of the lag on repricing.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders’ equity, as reported in IBRD’s balance sheet at June 30, 2001, was $29,570 million compared with $29,289 million at June 30, 2000 The increase from FY 2000 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings of $824 million, offset by fluctuations m the amounts to maintain value of currency holdings
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio Table 8 presents the composition of this measure of equity at June 30, 2001 and 2000.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income suffi-
Table 8: Equity Capital
In millions of US dollars
cient to absorb plausible risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management—Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
As presented in Figure 4, IBRD has maintained a relatively stable equity-to-loans ratio on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis
This ratio rose slightly to 21 42% at June 30, 2001, from 21 23% one year earlier In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of transfer to general reserves of $618 million approved on August 2, 2001 was included in this ratio at June
30,	2001 ($1,114 million—June 30, 2000)
a Excluding cumulative translation amounts associated with the FAS 133 adjustment
Capital
The authorized capital of IBRD at June 30, 2001 was $190,811 million, of which $189,505 million had been subscribed Of the subscribed capital, $11,476 million had been paid in and $178,029 mdlion was callable Of the paid-in capital, $7,882 million was available for lending and $3,594 million was not available for lending The terms of payment of IBRD’s capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors are
(i) $2,611 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S dollars or was converted by the subscribing members into U S dollars This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations
(n) $8,865 million of IBRD’s capital was paid m the currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be loaned only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved In accordance with such consents, $4,937 million of this amount had been used in IBRD’s lending operations at June 30, 2001.
(m) $151,604 million of IBRD’s capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made
(iv) $26,425 million of IBRD’s capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U S dollars and 90% in the cur-
rencies of the subscribing members While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription
At June 30, 2001, $103,604 million (58%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (DAC-OECD). This amount was equal to 93 0% of IBRD’s outstanding borrowings after swaps at June 30, 2001 Table 9 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U S. Congress but not appropriated Further action by the U S Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance The General Counsel of the U.S Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription.
a See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2001 in Financial Statements-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
Funding Operations
In FY 2001, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $17,033 million compared to $15,789 million in FY
2000.	Table 10 summarizes IBRD’s funding operations for FY 2001 and FY 2000. Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD's general operations,
including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. The increase in funding in FY 2001 was primarily attributable to the replacement of both maturing issues and issues called All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD’s operations Debt is allocated on a periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines. In FY 2001, IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, composed of cost-effective private placements, largely pre-sold institutional public issues and retail targeted transactions.
Table 10: Funding Operations Indicators
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or meet other operational needs In response to market conditions, during FY 2001, IBRD repurchased $859 million and called $3,430 million of its outstanding borrowings.
Use of Derivatives
IBRD engages in a combination of interest rate and currency swaps to convert direct borrowings into a desired interest rate structure and currency composition Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans
In FY 2001, the majority of new funding continued to be initially swapped into floating rate U S dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with funding requirements
Composition of Borrowings
Of the borrowings outstanding after swaps at June 30,
2001,	56% was at variable rates (55% at June 30, 2000). The currency composition continues to be concentrated in U.S dollars, with its share at the end of June 30, 2001 at 84% of the borrowings portfolio, after swaps (80% at June 30, 2000) This reflects IBRD borrowers’ preference for U S dollar-denominated loans and the corresponding currency composition of the liquid asset portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided m the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services Its activities can give rise to four major types of financial risk, credit risk, market risk (interest rate and exchange rate), liquidity risk; and operating risk The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes an Asset/Liability Management Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer This committee makes recommendations to senior management in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee reports to the Asset/Liability Management Committee This subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management Specific areas of activity include establishing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Country Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer This unit is independent from IBRD's business units and reports to IBRD's senior management. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for loan losses, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term The Chief Credit Officer represents IBRD's Chief Financial Officer on the Operations Committee, which reviews IBRD's Country Assistance Strategies and selected planned adjustment loans
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from IBRD's business units The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units Under the direction of the Asset/Liability Management Committee,
policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
IBRD assesses its risk-bearing capacity using a variety of metrics, including a stress test and an equity-to-loans ratio, to measure its income generating capacity and capital adequacy
The stress test measures the level of loan growth which could be supported by IBRD in the wake of a significant credit shock, without further deterioration in IBRD's capital position The nonaccrual event used in the stress test is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at a 95% confidence level
IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates One of IBRD’s financial risk manag-ment objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected from exchange rate movements
As presented in Figure 4 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD has maintained a relatively stable equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
IBRD's Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining its overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropnate level of provisions for loan losses, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital In keeping with standard practice, expected losses inherent in the portfolio due to coun-
try credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for loan losses, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital
The credit quality of IBRD's loan portfolio deteriorated in FY01, reflecting an increase in the volume of loans in nonaccrual status and a net deterioration in the risk ratings assigned to IBRD borrowers by the Credit Risk Department. While the changes in the risk ratings of IBRD's borrowers largely reflect country-specific developments, the Credit Risk Department's overall assessment of IBRD portfolio risk also reflects a less favorable baseline global outlook for many developing countries During FY 2001, loans to two borrowers were placed m nonaccrual status. The total outstanding principal of loans to these borrowers at June 30, 2001 was $921 million Both the increase in the volume of loans m nonaccrual status and the net deterioration in borrowers' risk ratings are reflected m the provisioning charge of $676 million in FY01
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed through a single borrower exposure limit According to an approach approved by the Executive Directors in 1997, the single borrower exposure limit is set at the lower of an equitable access limit and a concentration risk limit The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus, and the concentration limit is estimated by stress testing IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital (taking into account not only current exposure - loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees - but also projected exposure over the ensuing three- to five-year period) The single borrower exposure limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD's reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year For FY
2002,	the concentration risk limit is $13 5 billion, unchanged from FY 2001 The equitable access limit is $20.8 billion. As depicted in Figure 5, IBRD's largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.6 billion at June 30, 2001
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees
Overdue and Non-performing Loans It is IBRD’s policy that if a payment of principal, interest or other charges on an IBRD loan or IDA credit becomes 30 days overdue, no new loans to that member country, or to any other borrower in that country, will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payment for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer has been received. In addition, if such payment becomes 60 days overdue, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by that member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid Where the member country is not the borrower, the time period for suspension of the approval and signing
of new loans to or guaranteed by the member country is 45 days and the time period for suspension of disbursements is 60 days. It is the policy of IBRD to place all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD in nonaccrual status, if principal, interest or other charges on any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses to recognize the risk inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for loan losses is discussed under Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term Under this policy, IBRD will develop a lending strategy and will process loans, but not sign or disburse such loans, during a pre-
clearance performance period with respect to members that, (a) agree to and implement a medium-term, growth-oriented structural adjustment program endorsed by IBRD, (b) undertake a stabilization program, if necessary, endorsed, or financially supported, by the International Monetary Fund, (c) agree to a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors in the context of a medium-term structural adjustment program, and (d) make debt-service payments as they fall due on IBRD loans during the performance period. The signing, effectiveness and disbursement of such loans will not take place until the member’s arrears to IBRD have been fully cleared
On May 8, 2001, based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan, and followed with respect to Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996, IBRD’s Executive Directors authorized IBRD to enter into an agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) with respect to a plan for the clearance of arrears under loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for which FRY has accepted liability. Under the arrears clearance plan, FRY’s principal and interest arrears will be consolidated into one or more new IBRD loans The exact terms of these consolidation loans will be negotiated with FRY authorities.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans IBRD’s treatment of FRY is an exception to that prac-tive, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996 These criteria limited eligibility for such treatment to a country that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD, that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; that because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming, and for which a rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses IBRD's accumulated provision for loan losses reflects the inherent collectibility risk in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for loan losses by estimating the probable expected losses inherent in the portfolio on a borrower-by-borrower basis for both the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios at the balance sheet date The appropriate level of provisions for each borrower is estimated as the sum product of its expected default frequency (or probability of default to IBRD), its loans outstanding (plus the
present value of guarantees), and the assumed severity of loss given default
Estimating probable expected losses is inherently uncertain and depends on many factors IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses accordingly Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in general macroeconomic and political conditions, unexpected correlations within the portfolio, and other external factors.
Additional information on IBRD’s loan loss provisioning policy and status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, and Note C
Commercial Credit Risk
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governements, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various denvatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit nsk The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD’s funding, investment and asset/liability management activities The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from denvatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and nsk limits, and monitoring procedures The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty Collateral held includes cash and government secunties
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the denvative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and there exists a legally-enforceable master derivatives agreement with the counterparty, the “net" mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD's exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero Net mark-to-market is, in IBRD's view, the best measure of credit risk when there is a legally enforceable master derivatives agreement between IBRD and the counterparty which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note F.
Table 11 provides details of IBRD's estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps, net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The decline in the proportion of AAA rated investments and the corresponding increase in the proportion of AA rated investments, compared to the prior year, is mainly due to the downgrading of Japanese government securities during FY 2001. After the effects of master netting arrangements, the swap credit exposure of $560 million is offset by collateral of $338 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $222 million
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily interest and exchange rates In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD’s exposure to market risks is small IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD’s portfolios
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each product at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product in accordance with the particular requirements for that product and within prescribed risk parameters
Table 12 details the mark-to-current value of each loan product and the debt allocated to fund it
The overall positive mark to current value on loans indicates that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the present discount rate, which represents the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at June 30, 2001. The positive mark-to-current value in the borrowings portfolio represents the fact that the average cost of the borrowings portfolio is higher than the rate at which IBRD could currently obtain funding for similar maturities Table 13 summanzes the year-to-date effect on equity of marking the portfolios to current value
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs denvatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities
Interest Rate Risk
There are two potential sources of interest rate risk to IBRD, The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio Such cost passthrough loans currently account for approximately 74% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (78% at the end of FY 2000) Of these cost pass-through loans, the multicurrency pool loans do pose some residual interest rate nsk, given the six month lag inherent in the lending rate calculation. Since multicurrency pool loan terms are no longer available for new commitments, this risk will diminish as the existing loans mature.
Another potential nsk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these histoncal fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD’s new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool after FY 2010. The debt which funds these loans have maturities that extend beyond those of the loans and presents a risk of loss to IBRD because this debt carries fixed interest rates. Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately $5 6 billion in FY 2015 Strategies for managing this risk include changing the rate fixity of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond 2010 through the use of forward starting swaps. IBRD has begun executing these swaps and to date has paid $44 million since FY 2000. These forward starting
swaps are being transacted in a phased manner over the next four years The present value of the remaining overfunded portion of the above market debt is approximately $250 million as of June 30, 2001. The loss attributable to the combined position will be passed as a rate adjustment to the multicurrency pool loans.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 26% of the existing loan portfolio (22% at the end of FY 2000), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity charactenstics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of non-cost pass-though products will grow The interest rate nsk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits
Because equity funds a portion of outstanding loans, IBRD’s level of net income is sensitive to movements in the level of nominal interest rates. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repncing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. This timing mismatch does not have a material effect on income or on the equity-to-loans ratio.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carnes out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans This policy is designed to minimize the impact of market rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb potential losses from arrears regardless of the market environment.
Figure 6 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2001 and FY 2000
Operating risk is the potential for loss arising from internal activities or external events caused by breakdowns in information, communication, physical safeguards, business continuity, supervision, transaction processing, settlement systems and procedures and the execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operating risks IBRD attempts to mitigate operating risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep operating risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. In the past, IBRD has suffered certain minor financial losses from operating risk and while it maintains an adequate system of internal controls, there can be no absolute assurance that IBRD will not suffer such losses in the future
IBRD uses the COSOa control framework and a selfassessment methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, and it
a In 1992, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness
has an on-going program in place to assess all major business units IBRD obtains an attestation report from its external auditors that IBRD’s assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting meets the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO, is fairly stated in all material respects
Economic and Monetary Union in Europe
Since January 1, 1999, in the normal course of business as a multicurrency organization, IBRD has been conducting euro-denominated transactions in paying and receiving, investments, bond issuance, loan disbursements, loan billing and new lending commitments
IBRD has adopted a gradual approach to redenominate national currency unit balance sheet items and IBRD-administered donor trust funds to euro during the transition period, before their automatic conversion to euro on January 1, 2002
As of June 30, 2001, the accounting records for the investments and borrowings portfolios had been redenominated Records of the loans and capital portfolios are in the process of being redenominated and will be completed by January 1, 2002
•	The swing of $842 million in the provision for loan loss expense reflects a reassessment of the probable losses inherent in the accruing portfolio, and an increase in the volume of loans in nonaccrual status (See Notes to Financial Statements-Note C).
•	A $345 million increase in income related to FAS 133 adjustments reflects the mark to fair value of IBRD's derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, and the amortization of the transition adjustments created upon adoption of this standard on July 1, 2000.
FY 2000 versus FY 1999
FY 2000 net income was $1,991 million, $473 million
higher than in FY 1999 The majority of this change
was due to the following:
•	A $412 million reduction in loan loss provision expense resulting primarily from a reassessment of the possible losses inherent in the loan portfolio That assessment concluded that a general improvement in credit quality for certain large borrowers, as well as for the accrual portfolio as a whole, warranted a $243 million reduction in the accumulated provision for loan losses The remaining $169 million decrease in expense is attributable to a reduction in the growth of the loan portfolio.
•	A $345 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, resulting from an increase in the average outstanding loan balance, especially in the higher-yielding special adjustment loans, as well as the improved net returns from the single currency pool loans Net returns from the single currency pool loans recovered because the higher U S dollar borrowing costs were not fully passed through to borrowers in FY 1999. The lower interest waivers and higher front-end fees in effect for the full FY 2000 also contributed to the increase in net returns from the loan portfolio
7.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
To a large extent, the income and expenses associated with IBRD’s interest-bearing assets and liabilities are affected by changes in the interest rate environment.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2001, the applicable interest rates (predominantly U.S. dollar interest rates) for IBRD were declining, while the rates were increasing during FY
2000	The U.S dollar rates depicted in Figure 7 illustrate these trends.
Figure 7: LIBOR Interest Rates - U.S. Dollar
Although market rates decreased significantly in the latter half of FY 2001, this decrease will only affect IBRD’s interest-bearing assets and liabilities as they repnce Accordingly, though average market rates were lower for FY 2001 than FY 2000, average applicable interest rates for IBRD’s instruments were higher
Net Income
IBRD’s net income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses Table 14 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs
FY 2001 versus FY 2000
FY 2001 net income was $1,489 million, $502 million lower than in FY 2000 The majority of this change was due to the following
•	A $208 million reduction in investment income, net of funding costs, primarily as a result of the non-recurring $237 million gain realized in FY
1999 from the liquidation of the held-to-maturity portfolio
Net Interest Income FY2001 versus FY 2000
Income from Loans
•	Income from loans decreased by $10 million to $8,143 million in F^Y 2001 Income was reduced by $80 million due to the increased interest waiver on old loans during FY 2001 Additionally, the effects of an increased proportion of nonaccrual loans further reduced earnings by $28 million
•	These factors are offset by higher returns on loans, as well as a higher average outstanding loan volume during FY 2001, which resulted in $78 million and $40 million increases in loan income, respectively
•	The increased return was in part attributable to the higher proportion of loans in U.S dollars, which on average earned higher nominal rates than those in other major currencies. While interest rates declined sharply at the end of FY 2001, most of the effects of this decline will only impact loan returns gradually as the loans reprice
Income from Investments
•	Investment income decreased by $49 million in FY 2001 to $1,540 million primarily due to the decrease in the average outstanding investments balance, which resulted in a reduction of $197 million in income This effect is partially offset by a $148 million increase in income due to higher returns. The higher returns reflected the higher average interest rates of the liquid asset portfolio during FY 2001, as well as the higher mark-to-market gains resulting from a falling U S dollar interest rate environment in the last months of FY 2001
Borrowing Expenses
•	The cost of borrowing increased by $24 million to $7,152 million in FY 2001. Higher average borrowing rates resulted in a $314 million increase in cost. This higher rate reflected the higher average interest rate environment experienced during most of FY 2001 compared to FY 2000, and the increased proportion of U S. dollar borrowings, which on average carried higher nominal rates This increase in cost was partially offset by a lower average borrowings balance, resulting in a $290 million decrease in borrowing costs
FAS 133 Adjustments
Income of $345 million related to FAS 133 adjustments reflected the adoption of this standard on July 1, 2000 and the year-to-date mark to fair value of IBRD's derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, and the amortization of the transition adjustment created upon adoption (See Notes to Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies)
FY 2000 versus FY 1999 Income from Loans
•	Loan interest income increased by $504 million to $8,153 million in FY 2000 due primarily to the higher average balance of loans outstanding during the year This increased volume resulted in an additional $354 million of net income Additionally, an increase in the average return from loans contributed another $150 million to the increase in income. This increase in the weighted average return were mainly due to four factors (i) a higher average rate on the LIBOR-based loans in a rising interest rate environment, (11) the full year effect of the pass through of higher U S dollar borrowing costs funding single currency pool loans, (lii) a larger proportion of the higher-yielding special adjustment loans during the year, and (iv) having lower interest waivers and higher front-end fees in effect for the full fiscal year
Income from Investments
•	Investment income decreased by $95 million in FY 2000 to $1,589 million primarily due to two factors. In FY 1999, a $237 million one-time gain was realized upon liquidation of the securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio This was partially offset by $165 million increase in income from higher returns achieved in the increasing interest rate environment seen over the past year
Borrowing Expenses
•	The cost of borrowing increased by $282 million to $7,128 million in FY 2000, due to higher average borrowings outstanding The maturity of higher-cost debt in FY 2000 just offset the increase in borrowing costs resulting from interest rate resets on variable rate debt.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 15.
FY2001 versus FY 2000
Net noninterest expense decreased by $78 million Overall gross administrative expenses decreased by $55 million (see Notes to Financial Statements—Note H) due primarily to a decrease in the overall administrative expense budget, along with a slightly larger share of the total costs incurred being allocated to IDA, based on an agreed-upon cost sharing formula
which considers certain operational volume indicators. The remaining decrease in net noninterest resulted from an increase in miscellaneous income
FY 2000 versus FY 1999
Overall gross administrative expenses decreased by $33 million (see Notes to Financial Statements—Note
Table 15: Net Noninterest Expense In millions of US dollars
H) Net noninterest expense increased $66 million The major factor was that the contribution of income from pension and postretirement benefits dropped by $89 million, as a result of the decrease in the actuarially determined Staff Retirement Plan income
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swaps: Cross-currency interest rate swaps are currency swaps where one set of cash flows reflects a fixed rate of interest and the other reflects a floating rate of interest.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with the FAS 133 adjustment) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Forward Interest Rate Swaps: A forward interest rate swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified date
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U S and international regulated exchanges
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time
LIBOR: London interbank offer rate
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31,1998
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered
Statutory Lending Limit' Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946 The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing financing on concessionary terms IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and with International Accounting Standards
The preparation of financial statements m conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated and fair values of loans and borrowings, the determination of the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year's presentation
Accounting and Reporting Developments On July 1, 2000, IBRD adopted the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along
with its amendments In addition, IBRD adopted International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, "Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement" Although adoption of IAS 39 is not required for IBRD until July 1, 2001, IBRD elected to adopt this standard concurrently with SFAS No 133 These standards are collectively referred to as FAS 133 in this document These standards require that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet and reported at fair value
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes In applying FAS 133 for purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships Rather, all denvative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in the fair value have been recognized m net income While the denvatives in the borrowings portfolio require an adjustment under FAS 133, as do the Other Asset/Liability swaps, no adjustment is required to the investments portfolio since those derivative instruments are already recorded at fair value as part of the trading portfolio While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the apphcation of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs
The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle includes the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the embedded derivatives and derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, in the borrowings portfolio on July 1, 2000, offset by any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income The allocation between net income and other comprehensive income was based upon the hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133
Since IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard, the amount recorded in other comprehensive income is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings
The amounts reclassified into earnings for the year ended June 30, 2001 of $169 million have been included in Reclassification of FAS 133 Transition Adjustment to Net Income m the statement of comprehensive income On the statement of income these reclassifications are included in the FAS 133 Adjustment
During fiscal year 2001, IBRD adopted prospectively SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities— a replacement of SFAS No 125” This statement revises the standards for accounting for securitizations and other transfers of financial assets and collateral, and requires certain additional disclosures As applied to
IBRD, this statement requires that securities transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements be disclosed separately from other trading investments Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on IBRD's financial statements
Translation of Currencies. IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate nsk in a multicurrency environment IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings (after swaps) in the same currencies in which they are borrowed In addition, IBRD penodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the outstanding loans
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of "U S dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July
I,	1944” (1944 dollars) Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S dollar in terms of gold, the preexisting basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U S dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in Article
II,	Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as the SDR was valued in terms of U S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR
Maintenance of Value Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies (see Note A), requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or
the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) IBRD to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings For amounts on loan, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve and Surplus) and unallocated Net Income
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments held in the Trading portfolio, comprising obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and the SRP’s accounting income This Pension Reserve would be reduced if in any future fiscal year pension accounting expenses were to exceed the actual funding of the SRP
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated to the General Reserve after an assessment by the Executive Directors of IBRD’s reserve needs Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of
Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, penodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD's Articles of Agreement
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered immaterial The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fees amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion
In addition, on May 8, 2001, the Executive Directors approved a financial assistance package for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in connection with its succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) in IBRD. One component of that package is a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which the FRY has accepted liability Under the arrears clearance plan, FRY's principal and interest arrears would be consolidated into one or more new IBRD loans. The exact terms of the consolidation loans are being negotiated with the FRY authorities
IBRD's treatment of FRY is based on cntena approved by the Executive Directors m connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996 These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD, (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member, (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement m its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria
Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or
additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments for interest and charges made according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows Such present value losses are considered in the determination of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses IBRD has not written off any of its outstanding loans
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD On the date a member’s loans are placed in nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current penod Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included m income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IBRD If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new loans may have been restored A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance
IBRD determines the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in the total loan and callable guarantees portfolio, including loans in nonaccrual status The accumulated provision is periodically adjusted based on a review of the prevailing circumstances Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income In the context of determining the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, IBRD considers the present value of expected cash flows relative to the contractual cash flows for loans
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase Securities which management has the intention and ability to hold until maturity are classified as Held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost Securities designated for other postretirement benefits are carried and reported at market value or at their estimated fair values. The changes in the values of the securities designated for other postretirement benefits are included in the determination of net income All other investment securities are held in a Trading portfolio and classified as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows due to their nature and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s Trading portfolio are carried and reported at
market value Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the Trading portfolio are included in income Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a proxy for cash securities These instruments include short-term, over-the-counter foreign exchange forwards, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, and exchange-traded futures and options on fixed income instruments These denvatives are carried at market value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities, these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Secunties purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral
Borrowings To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers IBRD issues short-term and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30, 2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding The unamortized balance of the issuance costs is included in Other Assets on the balance sheet, and the issuance costs amortization is presented as a separate element under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities to take advantage of cost saving opportunities across capital markets to lower its funding costs. These instruments include currency and interest rate swaps, swap spread-locks, swaptions, and structures with embedded optionality These denvatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement Prior to the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, all derivatives were recorded on an histoncal cost basis using synthetic accounting, upon termination, the change in the denva-tive’s market value was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of the underlying borrowing and rec-
ognized as an adjustment of the borrowing cost over the remaining life of the borrowing In instances where the underlying borrowing was prepaid, the change in the associated derivative's market value was recognized immediately as an adjustment to the cost of the underlying borrowing instrument However, upon adoption of FAS 133, these derivatives are carried at market value
Other Derivatives- As part of asset/liability management, IBRD entered into a number of currency swaps in fiscal year 2001 to better align its currency composition of Equity with that of loans These currency swap payables and receivables are recorded at market value in accordance with FAS 133
Fair Value Disclosures. Financial instruments for which market quotations are available have been valued at the prevailing market value Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using methodologies and assumptions that necessarily require the use of subjective judgments Accordingly, the actual value at which such financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable may not be determinable
NOTE A—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2001, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 (1,581,724—June 30, 2000) authorized shares, of which 1,570,895 (1,563,443—June 30, 2000) shares had been subscribed Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1 20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,476 million ($11,418 million—June 30, 2000) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,029 million ($177,188 million—June 30, 2000) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: Of the total amount of $912 million ($522 million—June 30, 2000) included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings, which has been deducted from equity, $198 million ($169 million—June 30, 2000) represents MOV receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned. The remaining $714 million ($353 million—June 30, 2000) represents net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan that become payable under the same terms as other MOV
obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD
Membership: In February 1993, IBRD’s Executive Directors decided that the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) had ceased to be a member of IBRD and that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (now called Bosnia and Herzegovina), the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) were authorized to succeed to the SFRY’s membership when certain requirements were met, including entenng into an agreement with IBRD on IBRD’s loans made to or guaranteed by the SFRY which the particular successor Republic would assume On May 8, 2001, the Executive Directors approved a membership and financial assistance package for the FRY in connection with its succession to membership of the former SFRY in IBRD One component of that package is a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which FRY has accepted liability. The paid-in portion of the SFRY’s subscribed capital allocated to the FRY which was included under Payments on Account of Pending Subscriptions in fiscal year 2000, is now included in capital stock All five of the successor Republics have now become members of IBRD.
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial denvatives including futures, forward contracts, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, options and short sales
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countnes with a minimum credit rating of AA, however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity with a minimum credit rating of AA For asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures and options contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin
For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2001, IBRD had received $319 million of securities under resale agreements None of these securities has been included in the assets of IBRD
Held-to-maturity portfolio: During fiscal year 1999, IBRD liquidated the securities in the held-to-matunty portfolio and thereby realized a gain of $237 million
NOTE C—LOANS, COFINANCING AND GUARANTEES
IBRD’s loan portfolio includes multicurrency loans, single currency pool loans and single currency loans Each of these is described below. At June 30, 2001 only single currency loans which carry either a variable or fixed spread were available for new commitments
Multicurrency Loans
Fixed rate loans: On loans negotiated prior to July 1982, IBRD charges interest at fixed rates
Adjustable rate loans: In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from fixed rate to adjustable rate lending. This rate, reset twice a year, is based on IBRD’s own cost of qualified borrowings plus a lending spread3, resulting in a pass-through of its average borrowing costs to those members that benefit from IBRD loans IBRD has withdrawn these loan terms for commitments for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after March 1, 2001
Single Currency Pool Loans
In fiscal year 1997, IBRD offered its borrowers the opportunity to convert their existing multicurrency pool loans to single currency pools These pools were available in four currencies (U S. dollar, Japanese yen, Deutsche mark, or Swiss franc) At inception, each single currency pool reflected the composition of the multicurrency pool However, as of June 30, 1999, all of the pools had exceeded the 90% target in the designated currency All adjustable rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools carry the applicable pool's adjustable lending rate, reset semiannually to reflect the previous semester average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund that pool weighted by the shares of currencies in the pool, plus a spread of 50 basis points Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate
Single Currency Loans
Fixed-rate loans: IBRD introduced fixed rate single currency loans m 1995 The rates charged on fixed rate single currency loans are set on semi-annual rate fixing dates for loan amounts disbursed during the preceding six-month period and remain fixed for such disbursed amounts until they are repaid For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at a variable rate equal to the rate on LIBOR-based single currency loans applicable for such interim period The fixed lending rate comprises a base rate reflecting medium- to long-term market rates on the semi-annual rate-fixing date for loan amounts disbursed during the preceding six-month period, plus a total spread consisting of (a) IBRD’s funding cost margin for these loans in the loan currency, (b) a market risk premium (intended to compensate IBRD for market risks incurred in funding these loans), and (c) a lending spread As of December 1, 1999, fixed-rate single currency loans were no longer available for new commitments
Variable-Spread loans: IBRD introduced variable-spread single currency loans in 1993 The rates charged on vanable-spread single currency loans are a passthrough of IBRD’s cost of funding for these loans, and are reset semi-annually They comprise a base rate equal to the six-month reference interbank offered rate for the applicable currency on the rate reset date and a total spread consisting of (a) IBRD’s average funding cost margin for these loans and (b) a lending spread
Certain variable-spread single currency loans, including the Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans introduced in fiscal year 1999, have non-standard terms These loans have a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 400 basis points over LIBOR, a front-end fee, and are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Fixed-Spread loans:	IBRD	introduced fixed-spread
loans in fiscal year 2000 These loans have an interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread that will be fixed for the life of the loan The spread is currently 55 basis points for U S dollar and euro denominated loans, and 50 basis points for Japanese yen denominated loans A commitment charge premium of 10 basis points over the standard 75 basis points charged on other IBRD loans will be included for the first four years from the date the commitment charge begins to accrue
Borrowers selecting this product have the flexibility to change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan, subject to certain conditions
a Until July 31, 1998, the lending spread was 50 basis points However, during the first quarter of fiscal year 1999, the lending spread charged by IBRD to its borrowers was increased by 25 basis points to 75 basis points for loans where the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998 In addition, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced
Waivers of Loan Interest and Commitment Charges
For payment periods beginning during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, the following interest waivers on disbursed and outstanding loans to eligible borrowers were in effect With respect to loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31,
1998,	and which carry a 75 basis point lending spread, the interest waiver was 25 basis points A similar waiver was in effect for the fiscal years ended June 30,
2000	and June 30, 1999. With respect to loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued before July
31,	1998, and which carry a 50 basis point lending spread, the interest waiver was 15 basis points A waiver of 5 basis points was in effect during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 For the
A summary of IBRD's outstanding loans by currency and product at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 follows
In millions ofUS dollars equivalent
fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, the combined effect of these waivers was to reduce Net Income by $139 million ($59 million—June 30, 2000, $102 million—June 30, 1999)
A one-year commitment charge waiver of 50 basis points was in effect on all eligible undisbursed loans to all borrowers for all payment periods commencing in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 A similar waiver of 50 basis points was in effect for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, the effect of the commitment charge waiver was to reduce Net Income by $169 million ($207 million—June 30, 2000, $229 million—June 30, 1999)
a Effective January 1, 1999, the euro was introduced For reporting purposes, amounts in the twelve national currencies that are considered national currency units of the euro have been aggregated with the euro and reported as euro in both the current and prior year
b	Includes pre-pool loans, loans to IFC, and co-finanang loans in	addition to	multicurrency pool loans
c	Average Maturity - Multicurrency loans IBRD maintains a	targeted currency composition in	its multicurrency loans The present target ratio is
one US dollar for every 125 Japanese yen and one euro These three major currencies comprise at least 90% of the multicurrency loans' U S dollar equivalent value, with the remainder in other currencies This ratio was changed in January 1999 as a result of the introduction of the euro The composition of the multicurrency loans is affected by the selection of currencies for disbursements on those loans and by the currencies selected for the bilhngofthe principal repayments Along with the selection of disbursement currencies, IBRD manages the selection of repayment currencies to maintain the alignment of the multicurrency loans' composition with the target ratio The selection of currencies for repayment billing by IBRD precludes the determination of average maturity information for multicurrency loans by individual currency Accordingly, IBRD only discloses the maturity periods for its multicurrency loans on a combined U S dollars equivalent basis
d	Excludes effects of any waivers of loan interest
e	Includes fixed-rate and variable-spread bans
Estimated Value of Loans
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans The estimated value of loans incorporates
IBRD's estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The estimated value of all loans is based on a discounted cash flow method The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted by the market yield curves applicable to IBRD funding
a	Includes fixed-rate and vanable-spread loans
b	Amount includes carrying value of $11,301 million ($10,800 million—June 30, 2000) and estimated value of $11,319 million
($10,789 million—June 30, 2000) for non-standard single currency loans
Cofinancing and Guarantees
IBRD has taken direct participations in, or provided partial guarantees of, loans syndicated by other financial institutions for projects or programs also financed by IBRD through regular loans IBRD also has provided partial guarantees of securities issued by an entity eligible for IBRD loans IBRD's partial guarantees of bond issues are included in the guarantees amount mentioned below IBRD’s direct participations in syndicated loans are included in the reported loan balances
Guarantees of loan principal of $1,488 million at June 30, 2001 ($1,661 million—June 30, 2000), were not included in reported loan balances At June 30, 2001, $473 million of these guarantees were subject to call ($467 million—June 30, 2000) In some cases, IBRD guarantees have included interest payments in addition to principal Total interest guarantees at June 30, 2001 were $117 million ($20 million—June 30, 2000), of
which $11 million ($10 million—June 30, 2000) were subject to call
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2001, no loans payable to IBRD, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, were overdue by more than three months
At June 30, 2001, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,832 million ($2,031 million—June 30, 2000), of which principal of $1,331 million ($1,302 million—June 30, 2000) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status At such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect of these loans totaled $1,087 million ($1,060 million—June 30, 2000) If these loans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, would have been higher by $80 million ($52 million— June 30, 2000, $55 million—June 30, 1999)
a Represents interest and charges overdue
On May 8, 2001, the Executive Directors approved a membership and financial assistance package for the FRY at which time the FRY accepted liability for all loans allocated to it by the SFRY One component of that package is a plan for the clearance of arrears under which FRY’s principal and interest arrears would be consolidated into one or more new IBRD loans The exact terms of the consolidation loans are being negotiated with the FRY authorities
During fiscal year 1998, the Syrian Arab Republic and IBRD entered into an agreement covering, among other things, the application of payments by Syria of its overdue principal, interest, and charges Under this agreement, Syria paid the overdue principal to IBRD in one payment of $263 million on September 2, 1997 and has been making monthly payments to IBRD since then
In June 1996, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina were cleared through three new consolidation loans extended by IBRD These new loans consolidated all outstanding principal and overdue interest on the loans assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina This resulted m an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million and the deferral of the recognition of the related interest income
The average recorded investment in nonaccruing loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, was $2,424 million ($2,057 million—June 30, 2000, $2,084 million—June 30, 1999)
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000, no loans came out of nonaccrual status During fiscal year 2001, all loans made to or guaranteed by Zimbabwe and Cote d'Ivoire were placed in nonaccrual status
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest on its loans However, IBRD suffers losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of expected payments for interest and charges according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the actual cash flows Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status Several borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual status after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. To recognize the risks inherent in its loan portfolio, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses Of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses of $3,959 million at June 30, 2001 ($3,400 mil-
lion—June 30, 2000), $1,090 million is attributable to the nonaccruing loan portfolio ($700 million—June 30, 2000)
Changes to the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001, June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 are summarized below
In fiscal year 2001, a reassessment of the probable losses inherent in the portfolio resulted in an increase in provisioning requirements at June 30, 2001, as compared to June 30, 2000 The factors that contributed to the increase in provisioning requirements were the movement of the loans made to or guaranteed by two borrowers into nonaccrual status, and a net deterioration in the creditworthiness of the accrual portfolio.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will
not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into account in its review of the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA’s Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months To receive a supplemental credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA At June 30, 2001, IDA had approved credits of $1,679 million ($1,659 million—June 30, 2000) under this program from inception, of which $1,651 million ($1,630 million—June 30, 2000) had been disbursed to the eligible countries
NOTE E—OTHER ASSET/LIABILITY SWAPS
In March 2001, as part of asset/liability management, IBRD entered into a number of currency swaps to better align its currency composition of Equity with that of loans A summary of IBRD’s other asset/liability swaps at June 30, 2001 is presented below
In millions of US dollars equivalent
*	Less than $0 5 million NOTE F—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share
of outstanding loans to any individual borrower The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD’s own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers selfinterest in IBRD’s continued strong intermediation capacity Collectibility risk is covered by the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk Credit nsk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties Credit risk is controlled through application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure As of June 30, 2001, IBRD had received collateral of $351 million in connection with swap agreements None of this collateral has been included in the assets of IBRD
In addition, IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is eliminated only to the extent that financial liabilities to the same counterparty are settled after the assets are realized Because the exposure is affected by each transaction subject to the arrangement, the extent of the reduction in exposure may change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date
The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 (prior to taking into account any master denvatives or collateral arrangements that have been entered into) are given below
On August 1, 2000, the Executive Directors allocated $1,114 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 to the General Reserve and
$166 million to the Pension Reserve, representing the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and its accounting income for the fiscal year 2000
On September 27, 2000, the Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of unallocated Net Income an amount equivalent to $320 million in SDRs (valued at June 30, 2000) to IDA, $250 million to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countnes (HIPC) Debt Initiative Trust Fund, $35 million to the Trust Fund for Kosovo, and $30 million for capacity building m Africa. The remaining $76 million was allocated to Surplus Of the $320 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 2000 that was approved for transfer to IDA, $300 million is to be drawn down in fiscal year 2005; the remaining $20 million was transferred in October 2000 as a reimbursement of IDA’s share of the fiscal year 2000 cost of implementing the Strategic Compact of IBRD and IDA.
On April 30, 2001, the Board of Governors approved a transfer from Surplus in the amount of $30 million to the Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The aggregate transfers and amounts payable for these Board of Governors-approved transfers at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 are included in the following table
NOTE H—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
In March 1997, the Executive Directors approved a multiyear program of institutional renewal to improve IBRD's and IDA’s business processes, products and services, strengthen their human resources through more skilled and better trained staff, and achieve a higher level of development effectiveness This program, which was in effect for three years ending June 30, 2000, resulted in the termination of 723 staff at a cumulative cost of $111 million, of which $44 million was allocated to IDA, consistent with normal cost apportionment procedures applied in the calculation of IDA's share of administrative expenses Included in the total charges of $111 million are costs associated with outplacement consulting, job search assistance, training, medical insurance plan contributions and related tax allowances. At June 30, 2001, $10 million was payable ($42 million—June 30, 2000).
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 are net of the share of administrative expenses charged to IDA of $551 million ($549 million—June 30, 2000, $518 million—June 30, 1999)
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities
IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties for services rendered These amounts are included in Other Income For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2001, June 30, 2000, and June 30, 1999, the amount of fee revenue associated with administrative services is as follows
In millions
2001	2000	1999 ~
Service fee revenue	$146	$118	$116
Included in these amounts are the following
Fees charged to IFC	19	16	17
Fees charged to MIGA	111
At June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000, the following payables (receivables) by IBRD to (from) its affiliated organizations with regard to administrative services and pension and other postretirement benefits are included in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities:
During fiscal year 2000, IBRD began offering investment management services to a non-affiliated institution. Under this arrangement, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of this institution, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolio This fee income is
included in service fee revenues noted previously At June 30, 2001, the assets managed under this agreement had a value of $4,172 million ($5,158 million— June 30, 2000) These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE I—TRUST FUNDS
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restncted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation,
global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. The trust fund assets by executing agent at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 are summarized below
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services During
the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, IBRD received $14 million ($17 million—June 30, 2000 and $19 million— June 30, 1999) as fees for administering trust funds These fees have been recorded as Other Income
NOTE J—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD has a defined benefit Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) that covers substantially all of its staff. The SRP also covers substantially all the staff of IFC and MIGA In addition, IBRD provides other postretirement benefits for eligible active and retired staff through a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a Post-Employment Benefits Plan (PEBP)
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, IBRD reviewed the status of the RSBP and PEBP accounts and determined that the assets and liabilities did not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting At June 30,
1998,	the assets and liabilities were recorded on IBRD’s balance sheet
Subsequently, during the first quarter of fiscal year
1999,	the RSBP was modified so that some of the assets
designated for other postretirement benefits met the requirements for plan assets prescribed under SFAS 106 "Employer’s Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions’’ Accordingly, the RSBP assets and liabilities were removed from the balance sheet As a result, the assets and liabilities designated on the balance sheet for other postretirement benefits were reduced by $806 million and $620 million, respectively The $650 million of assets that remained on the balance sheet were incorporated into Trading investments At June 30, 2001, liabilities of $129 million ($119 million—June 30, 2000) for the PEBP shown on the balance sheet represent pension benefits administered outside the SRP
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001, June 30,
2000,	and June 30, 1999
The portion of the SRP and RSBP income related to IBRD that has been included in income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 is $155 million ($166 million—June 30, 2000; $255 million—June 30, 1999). The balance has been included as a payable to IDA
The portion of the cost for the PEBP related to IBRD that has been included in income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 is $7 million ($10 million—June
30,	2000; $10 million—June 30, 1999). The balance has been included as a receivable from IDA
The following table summarizes the benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and rate assumptions associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001, June 30, 2000, and June 30, 1999
* Less than $0 5 million
The $1,679 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30, 2001 ($1,355 million—June 30, 2000) is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet Of this amount $815 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($643 million—June 30, 2000) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet
The $197 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30, 2001 ($191 million—June 30, 2000), is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. Of this amount $86 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($85 million—June 30, 2000) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions Changes in these assumptions will
The medical cost trend rate can significantly affect the reported postretirement benefit income or costs and benefit obligations The following table shows the
NOTE K—SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD's operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries
For fiscal year 2001, loans to each of two countries generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income Loan
impact future benefit costs and obligations The weighted-average assumptions used in determining expense and benefit obligations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001, June 30, 2000, and June 30,
1999	are as follows
effects of a one-percentage-point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate
income from these two countries was $939 million and $870 million
NOTE L—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the effects of the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, and net income These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
The effect of projected compensation levels was calculated based on a scale that provides for a decreasing rate of salary increase depending on age, beginning with 11 50% (12 25%—June 30, 2000, 11 75%—June 30, 1999) at age 20 and decreasing to 5 00% (5 75%—June 30, 2000, 5 25%—June 30, 1999) at age 64
President and Board of Governors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2001 and 2000, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2001, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits m accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessmg the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, m all material respects, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2001 and
2000,	and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Accounting Standards.
As discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies in the notes to the financial statements, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments to conform with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 137, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133, and SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has also early-adopted International Accounting Standard No. 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
July 30, 2001
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established on September 24, 1960 IDA's main goal is reducing poverty through promoting economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by providing financing on concessionary terms. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote the economic development of its member countries, primarily by providing loans and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to help developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries
Termination of the Interim Trust Fund
The Interim Trust Fund (ITF) was established by IDA's Board of Governors on June 26, 1996 as part of the Eleventh Replenishment, and became effective on November 14, 1996. The ITF was a trust fund administered by IDA to help fund operations approved during the period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997, as well as certain operations approved after July 1, 1997.
With the agreement of a majority of ITF contributors representing a majority of the aggregate ITF contributions, the Executive Directors on May 25, 2001 decided to terminate the ITF. Upon termination, ITF credits became part of IDA’s regular lending portfolio, and all of ITF’s assets and liabilities were transferred to IDA as shown on the following table of ITF Sources and Applications of Development Resources as of May
31,	2001 and June 30, 2000 prior to the transfer
The Board of Governors, in the ITF resolution, authorized the allocation of voting rights in IDA to ITF contributors on account of their contributions upon termination The ITF resolution provided that voting rights were to be calculated "on the basis of the then-current voting rights system ” Accordingly, upon the final decision to terminate ITF, voting rights, including preemptive rights under Article III, Section 1(c) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement, were calculated and handled in accordance with the same model and procedures as used in regular replenishments
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contnbutions and other development resources These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of Amenca or with International Accounting Standards These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates Significant judgements have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year's presentation In prior years, the Interim Trust Fund was presented on a stand alone basis and therefore, such assets and liabilities were not included as part of IDA's financial statements The prior years’ IDA balances and activity have been restated to include the Interim Trust Fund at June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999 due to the Interim Trust Fund termination discussed above
Basis of Accounting
IDA's special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U S dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U S dollars Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Other
translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment Replenishments become effective when IDA has received Instruments of Commitments (IoCs) from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, nomnterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement penod of the credits committed under the replenishment
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount The discount is recorded as unamortized discounts on contributions (a reduction of Subscnptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD's Board of Governors
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories. (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining ninety percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscnptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part
II	member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under due from banks, or as restricted notes included under nonnegotiable, nonmterest-bear-ing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions Restricted notes at June 30, 2001 were $33 million ($35 million, June 30, 2000).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of ‘‘U.S dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars) Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared The
Executive Directors of IDA have decided, with effect on that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U S dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U S dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1 20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies Beginning July 1, 1986, subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA) In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending Development credits carry a service charge of 0 75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries, therefore there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits Management continually monitors this credit risk No provision for credit losses, other than allowances for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established This is because it is not practicable to determine a provision for credit losses in view of the nature and maturity structure of the credit portfolio Should probable losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars In June 1987 the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1 20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and
thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed
Development Grants
The Eleventh and Twelfth Replenishment Resolutions authorize the use of Eleventh and Twelfth Replenishment donor funds to finance IDA development grants in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative. The net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999 also authorizes the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996 as a legally separate entity It was administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Original Framework of the Initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms: (1) partial financing of lending operations with development grants, (11) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the World Bank component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund, and (in) the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits, m certain cases, by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
Under the Enhanced Framework of the initiative, which was approved by IDA's Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the World Bank Group component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (li) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt
Commencing in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000, development grants and any impairments of IDA's outstanding development credits in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative are recognized as charges to income. This recognition occurs when IDA either approves development and/or debt service grants or determines that impairments to IDA's credits are probable and can be reasonably estimated Previously, development grants and such impairments were not charged to income Instead, they were directly reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources, as a separate line item titled Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Investments
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at market value Both realized and
unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral
Accounting Changes
Dunng fiscal year 2001, IDA adopted prospectively the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (a replacement of SFAS No. 125).” That statement revises the accounting standards for securitizations and other transfers of financial assets and collateral, and requires certain additional disclosures In the context of IDA, that statement requires that securities transferred under repurchase or secunty lending agreements be disclosed separately from other trading investments At June 30,
2001,	IDA's trading investments included $4,573 million ($3,106 million—June 30, 2000) that had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements Adoption of that standard did not have a material impact on IDA’s financial statements
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000, IDA changed its accounting policy related to the HIPC Debt Initiative and restated its financial statements of prior years to apply retroactively the new policy The effect of the accounting change on income previously reported for fiscal year 1999 was a reduction of $154 million A summary of the accounting policy and details of debt relief provided under the HIPC Debt Initiatives are presented in Note I
Beginning in fiscal year 2000, all investment securities are included as an element of liquidity in the Statements of Cash Flows due to their nature, and IDA's policies governing the level and use of such investments The Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal year 1999 have been restated to reflect this change, for which there is no income effect.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed separately IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal IDA is authorized to enter into
currency swaps for periods not exceeding one year, including covered forwards
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries require a minimum credit rating of AA if denominated m a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity require a credit rating of AAA
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option IDA invests only in exchange-traded options The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount IDA does not write uncovered option contracts
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:	Repurchase	agreements	are	contracts	under
which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions
a Restated to include Interim Trust Fund balances at June 30, 2000
b Effective January 1, 1999, the euro was introduced For reporting purposes, holdings in the twelve national currencies that are considered national currency units of the euro have been aggregated with the euro and reported as euro, in both the current and prior year
sents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts Additionally, the nature of the instruments involve contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
As of June 30, 2001, IDA received $356 million of securities purchased under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $42 million has been transferred under repurchase or secunty lending agreements None of these securities has been included in the assets of IDA
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 (prior to taking into account any master
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources Credit risk exposure repre-
Twelfth Replenishment: On April 8, 1999, the Board of Governors of IDA adopted a resolution authorizing the Twelfth Replenishment of IDA's resources. The Twelfth Replenishment, which provides IDA with resources of
SDR 15,343 million to fund concessional lending during the period July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2002, became effective on March 23, 2000. Of this amount, new contributions from donor countries, including supplementary contributions provided by certain members and discounts on accelerated encashments, total SDR 8,640 million Certain procurement restrictions apply to Twelfth Replenishment credits financed by donor funds
Membership: In February 1993 the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) ceased to be a member of IDA due to the cessation of its membership in IBRD The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (now called Bosnia and Herzegovina), the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) were authorized to succeed to the SFRY’s membership when certain requirements were met, including entering into an agreement with IDA On June 5, 2001, the Executive Directors approved membership for the FRY in connection with its succession to membership of the former SFRY in IDA The paid-in portion of the SFRY’s subscriptions and contributions allocated to the FRY, $7 million, which was included under Payments on Account of Pending Membership in fiscal year 2000, is now included under Subscriptions and Contributions Paid In.
All five successor Republics—Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and FRY—are now members of IDA
NOTE D—TRANSFERS AND RECEIVABLES FROM IBRD
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $6,755 million through June 30, 2001 ($6,435 million—June 30, 2000) The aggregate transfers reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources may differ from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements
Of the aggregate transfers, $320 million in SDRs valued at June 30, 2000 was approved by IBRD's Board of Governors on September 27, 2000 Of this amount, $300 million will be drawn down in fiscal year 2005, at the end of the defined encashment schedule for donor contributions to IDA’s Twelfth Replenishment The remaining $20 million in SDRs, in reimbursement for IDA’s share of the fiscal year 2000 cost of implementing IBRD’s and IDA’s Strategic Compact, was transferred on October 18, 2000. The transfer reported in the Statement of Cash Flows is different due to exchange rate movements.
At June 30, 2001, the unremitted balances of all the approved aggregate transfers from IBRD have been included in Receivable from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Accumulated Allowance for Heainly Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Development credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources before any allowance in connection with either the Enhanced or Original HIPC Framework (see Note I)
The nominal value of the principal component of the debt relief to be provided under the Enhanced HIPC
Framework is included under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative m the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources. This amount is net of any debt relief delivered to date.
Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA in connection with the sales of IDA credits to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund, the estimated write-down, representing the difference between the carrying value and the net present value (see Note F) of the development credits identified for sale, is recorded under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources
Changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 are summarized below
a	Restated to include Interim Trust Fund activity for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000
b	This balance is the sum of the principal component of the actual amount of debt relief remaining to	be provided to
those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain cases their completion points,	and the principal
component of the best estimate available of the amount of debt relief that is expected to be provided	to other eligible
countries
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2001, principal of $2 million and charges of $1 million payable to IDA on development credits, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, were overdue by more than three months At June 30,
2001,	the aggregate principal amounts outstanding on all development credits to any borrower, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, with any development credits overdue by more than three months was $1,049 million
At June 30, 2001, development credits made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $5,887 million
($4,264 million—June 30, 2000), of which $340 million ($284 million—June 30, 2000) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status At such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled $207 million ($185 million—June 30, 2000) If these development credits had not been m nonaccrual status, income from development credits net of charges received from such members during the period, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 would have been higher by $34 million ($29 million—June 30, 2000 and $35 million— June 30, 1999).
During fiscal year 2001, all credits made to, or guaranteed by Zimbabwe and Cote d’Ivoire were placed in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, Comoros paid off all its arrears to IDA Its development credits came out of nonaccrual status on January 6, 2000 As a result, income from development credits for the year ended June 30, 2000 increased by $1 million, corresponding to income that would have been accrued in the previous fiscal year had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status
During fiscal year 1999, Sudan reached an understanding with IBRD and IDA under which Sudan agreed to make regular monthly payments of $1 million to clear its arrears beginning in July 1999 These payments were to be applied first to IBRD arrears and then to arrears with IDA As of June 30, 2000, Sudan had paid off all of its arrears to IBRD, and consequently, the entire monthly payment is being applied to IDA arrears
Fifth Dimension Program
Under the Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA is allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported
structural adjustment program Such supplementary IDA credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA's eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months To receive a supplemental credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA
A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 is given below.
In millions of US dollars equivalent
Guarantees
The guarantee of a development credit of $28 million at June 30, 2001 ($30 million—June 30, 2000) was not included in the Total Resources Used for Development Credits. At June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000, no amounts were subject to call
Segment Reporting
For fiscal year 2001, development credits to two countries individually generated in excess of ten percent of total income from these credits, amounting to $141 million and $65 million
NOTE F—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: Since IDA carries its investments at market value, the carrying amount represents the fair value of the portfolio These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value
Development Credits: IDA’s development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA’s terms Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government secunties having similar maturity to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element Under the Original HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Using the six months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U S dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits, before being aggregated to provide the composite results.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $86,572 million reflected on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June 30, 2001 ($86,643 million— June 30, 2000), as shown in the following table.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA's development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant
NOTE G—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
IDA’s share of the administrative expenses incurred jointly by IBRD and IDA is set out below
element The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 67 percent as of June 30, 2001 (68 percent—June 30, 2000]
The following table shows the administrative expenses, net of IDA’s share of income from pension plan and other postretirement benefits plans
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for
borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed m trust and are not included in the development resources of IDA
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services IDA receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduc-
tion of the administrative expenses charged by IBRD During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, IDA received $11 million ($7 million-—June 30, 2000, $6 million-—June 30, 1999) as fees for administering trust funds
NOTE I—IMPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Enhanced HIPC Framework
Assistance under the Enhanced HIPC Framework is provided by IDA, by debt service relief (forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA debt service obligations as they become due), and by means of debt service grants as partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt
Debt Service Relief
On January 27, 2000, the Executive Directors of IDA gave approval for IDA to provide debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework by forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA debt service obligations as they become due. Amounts of IDA debt service forgiven are expected to be reimbursed by the World Bank component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund on a pay-as-you-go basis
Upon approval of the Enhanced HIPC Framework by the Executive Directors of IDA, the nominal value of the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income This estimate is subject to periodic revision
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized This receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country, and is the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point A completion point is reached when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met, and the country's other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative
A receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point This receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed that was not recognized at the decision point
The accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA A summary of changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is presented under Note E
Debt service relief composed of $117 million in principal repayments and $36 million in charges has been provided to date by IDA, all of which was reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
During the year ended June 30, 2001, the Executive Directors of IDA had approved debt service grants totaling $101 million, made up of $37 million for Honduras and $64 million for Cameroon. Of the $101 million approved, $31 million has been provided to date by IDA and $70 million is yet to by provided Of the $31 million provided, $15 million has been reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below
Sales of IDA Development Credits
IDA sells specific development credits to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund for cash at a price equivalent to the net present value (see Note F) of the development credits, as calculated using the methodology agreed under the Original HIPC Framework. Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA, the esti-
mated write-down, representing the difference between the carrying value and the net present value of the development credits identified for sale, is recorded under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources On the settlement date, the esti-
At June 30, 2001, the cumulative position of the sales of IDA development credits under the Original HIPC Framework is as follows
mated write-down is adjusted to reflect the actual difference between the cash received and the carrying value of the development credit sold The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subsequently cancels these development credits
Upon Board approval, a write-down for the sale of the Burkina Faso development credits was recorded in fiscal year
2000.	The sale was executed in fiscal year 2001
Debt Service on Development Credits
The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund also services selected IDA development credits as they come due over a period of years From inception through June 30,
2001,	$52 million for Uganda and $54 million for Bolivia, as well as the associated investment income,
NOTE J—-COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income comprises currency translation adjustments on development credits and income or loss
had been approved for this purpose These amounts are not recorded in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources of IDA, as the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is a legally separate entity administered by IDA
after HIPC Debt Initiative These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the years ended June 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999:
Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Summary of HIPC Debt Initiative
The summary table below shows debt relief for countries that have reached their decision or completion points as of June 30, 2001, and estimated amounts to be provided to other eligible countries (with the exception of those countries for which cost estimates are not currently available), under both the Enhanced and Original Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative In addition to the total debt relief of $10,967 million, IDA is expected to extend new credits estimated at $232 million to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD
a	Restated to include Interim Trust Fund activity and balances at June 30, 2000, see Note A
b	The debt relief shown relates only to the World Bank component of this trust fund, and includes amounts approved up to June
30, 2001 by the Executive Directors of IDA c As of June 30, 2001, the 23 countries that have reached their decision points are Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Sad Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia
Report of Independent Accountants on Special Purpose Financial Statements
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (International Firm)
Suite 500
555 12th Street,N.W Washington, DC 20004-1207
Tel: (202) 897 5600 Fax: (202) 879 5309 www us deloitte.com
Deloitte
Touche
Tohmatsu
(International Firm)
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2001 and 2000, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power, and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2001, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes m retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2001. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits m accordance with auditing standards generally accepted m the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating die overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Accounting Standards.
In our opinion, such special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30,2001 and 2000, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2001 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
As discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, on May 25, 2001, the Interim Trust Fund was terminated and all of its assets and liabilities were transferred to the International Development Association. Accordingly, the information in the special purpose financial statements and related notes reflect the combined results of the International Development Association and the Interim Trust Fund as if the transfer had been in effect for all periods presented.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association’s Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
Disbursements and Procurement
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depend on individual circumstances Four considerations generally guide the Bank’s requirements:
■	Economy and efficiency in the execution of a project,
■	Opportunity for all eligible bidders from borrowing and nonborrowing member countries to compete in providing goods, works, and services financed by the Bank;
■	Development of local contractors, manufacturers, and consulting services in borrowing countries, and
■	Transparency in the procurement process.
Appendix 3A shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements for the IBRD and IDA through the end of fiscal 1996 and for the period fiscal 1997 through fiscal 2001 Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category.
Appendix 3B provides details on foreign disbursements by countries eligible to borrow from the World Bank and nonborrowing countries1 for the IBRD and IDA separately.
Appendix 3C shows disbursements made in fiscal 2001 by the IBRD and IDA for local procurement by current borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects funded by the Bank.
Appendix 4 shows the amounts disbursed from the IBRD and IDA separately for foreign procurement of goods, works, and services from selected member countries in fiscal 2001 and cumulatively through fiscal 2001
Appendix 5 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from the IBRD and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by selected member countries in fiscal 2001.
Appendix 6 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to eligible World Bank borrowing country suppliers and nonborrowing country suppliers in each fiscal year from 1999 to 2001 under investment projects Amounts disbursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers The extent to which eligible borrowing countries and nonborrowing countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared
Under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans approved by the executive directors in fiscal 1996, disbursements are no longer directly linked to procurement under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures Thus, while appendixes 3B to 6 report on disbursements from the IBRD and IDA, they do not include disbursements under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures The information in appendix 7 reflects simplified adjustment loan disbursements to each borrower as pro-rata shares of that borrower’s eligible imports from supplying countries using import data drawn from United Nations trade statistics
In all these tables and appendixes, IBRD figures exclude disbursements for loans to the IFC and “B” loans IDA figures include Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa and Interim Trust Fund credits Disbursements for Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for both the IBRD and IDA.
1 Appendix 2 lists countries eligible for borrowing from the World Bank
Note Foreign expenditures are expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the borrower or guarantor, for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the territory of the borrower or guarantor Local expenditures are expenditures in the currency of the borrower or guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the borrower or the guarantor a Amounts exclude debt-reduction disbursements of $3,693 million through fiscal 1996, $213 million in fiscal 1997, and $82 million in fiscal 1998 Amounts include disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans of $556 million through fiscal 1996, $3,333 million in fiscal 1997, $9,540 million in fiscal 1998, $10,423 million in fiscal 1999, $5,329 million in fiscal 2000, and $5,366 million in fiscal 2001 Amounts include H1FC Initiative grant disbursements of $74 million in fiscal 1998, $149 million in fiscal 1999, and $31 million in fiscal 2001
b Net advance disbursements are advances made to special accounts net of amounts recovered (amounts for which the Bank has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the outstanding advancc)
Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding
Note Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans and disbursements under HIPC Initiative grants Countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA are listed in appendix 2 For consistency of comparison, the Republic of Korea and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are included as countries eligible to borrow for all periods covered by this table Korea (a former graduate) again became eligible to borrow in December 1997 The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's eligibility was re-established in May 2001 Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding
Appendix 12: Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 2001
1	The 62nd meeting of the Development Committee was held in Prague, Czech Republic, on September 25, 2000, under its new Chairman, Mr Yashwant Sinha, Finance Minister of India The Committee expressed its great appreciation to Mr. Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda, Minister of Finance of Thailand, for his valuable leadership and guidance to the Committee as its Chairman during the past two years Mr. James Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, Mr. Horst Kohler, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, and Mr Carlos Saito, Chairman of the Group of Twenty-four, addressed the plenary session Observers from a number of international and regional organizations also attended
2	The Ministers’ discussions took place against the background of continuing public debate about the benefits and risks of globalization. Ministers stressed that the more integrated global economy and technological gains brought about by globalization should be a great source for economic and social progress, equity, and stability, but that these results are not inevitable Ministers recognized their important responsibility to help ensure that globalization works for the benefit of all, and not just the few, and re-emphasized their commitment to strengthening the Bank, the Fund, and other multilateral institutions as valuable allies in this effort whose ultimate objective is global poverty reduction, in particular halving the proportion in extreme poverty by the year 2015.
3.	Poverty Reduction and Global Public Goods. In considering the role the Bank might play in global public goods m areas within its mandate, Ministers noted four key criteria for Bank involvement clear value added to the Bank’s development objectives; Bank action is needed to catalyze other resources and partnerships, a significant comparative advantage for the Bank, and an emerging international consensus that global action is required. They endorsed four areas for Bank involvement, in cooperation with relevant international organizations' facilitating international movement of goods, services, and factors of production, fostering broad inclusion in the benefits of globalization and mitigating major economic and social problems, such as the transmission of disease and the consequences of conflict; preserving and protecting the environment; and creating and sharing knowledge relevant to development
4	Ministers warmly endorsed the greatly expanded efforts being made by the Bank, the United Nations,
and other international, national, and private partners, to combat communicable diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. Ministers noted the progress made since the April meeting of the Committee, and were encouraged that the international consensus that AIDS and other widespread diseases created severe development problems was being turned into strengthened action They also welcomed the commitment of IDA donors to expand and make more flexible the concessional resources available for these activities, without compromising fundamental IDA allocation policies. They encouraged the Bank to press further ahead on its commitment to help turn back the global HIV/AIDS epidemic, and welcomed the recently approved $500 million IDA program for this purpose in Africa
5	Ministers noted the Bank’s valuable role, in partnership with the Fund and other international agencies, in strengthening international financial architecture. This includes helping to develop appropriate standards and codes, taking account of the developing country perspective, in areas that are important to financial resilience and integration into the global financial system, and assisting countries to strengthen their related institutions and policies Ministers also pointed to the importance for all nations of increased national and international efforts to combat cross-border financial abuse, such as money laundering and other forms of abuse They urged the Bank to expand its program of technical and advisory support as a significant contribution to greater participation by developing countries in a more open and equitable world trading system. They reiterated both the promise and the challenge of communications technology to promote equitable growth, and welcomed initiatives by the Bank to help provide greater access, in partnership with others, for poor countries and communities to the knowledge and information opportunities of the digital age
6	Ministers recognized the need to explore further opportunities for securing appropriate financing for carefully selected priority global and regional programs with substantial impact on poverty reduction. This would require innovative use of World Bank lending and, in some cases, grant facilities, taking into account alternative sources of such funds and financial implications for the Bank, as well as of new forms of collaboration with international, bilateral, philanthropic, and private partners They stressed global public goods investments that benefited all countries should attract new resources.
7	The Committee looked forward to receiving, at its next meeting, a report on progress made in further delineating priority global public goods investment areas for the Bank, as well as on division of labor between development partners and the development of appropriate financing arrangements
8	Bank Support for Country Development• Recognizing that working with individual countries remains the backbone of the Bank’s business, Ministers welcomed this initial opportunity for a broad review of the World Bank Group’s role and instruments in support of member countries’ development, taking into account the role of the IMF and other institutions
9. Ministers emphasized that the Bank must tailor its support to reflect widely differing country situations To help ensure that country programs are well grounded, Ministers urged the Bank to continue to strengthen its country diagnostic and other economic and sector work. They stressed the need to focus on relevance to the country concerned, and on opportunities for greater synergy with the work of the country and other development partners. Ministers noted that this analytic work, along with capacity building, took on added importance in light of the use of programmatic adjustment lending in support of borrowers’ social and structural reforms, and the vision for Bank and Fund roles and partnership set out in the September 5, 2000, Joint Statement by the President and the Managing Director
10	Ministers emphasized the urgent need for the World Bank Group to clarify its agenda for institutional selectivity (based in part on its upcoming review of sector strategy papers), to carefully manage total demands made on Bank staff and other resources, and to work closely and systematically with other multilateral development banks and international organizations on a better coordination of responsibilities Ministers stressed that multilateral and bilateral donors could contribute greatly to country ownership, more efficient use of resources, and achievement of the agreed-on International Development Goals, by making greater progress on the harmonization of their operational policies and procedures to reduce the burden on developing countries. Ministers asked the Bank to work closely with its partners and prepare a report for the Committee’s next meeting on progress with harmonization.
11	Ministers welcomed the Bank’s overall approach for low-income countries and its proposals for achieving greater coherence among various program documents and instruments, including basing Country Assistance Strategies on Poverty Reduction
Strategy Papers Ministers welcomed the discussion of a poverty reduction support credit that would support poverty reduction strategies of governments and complement the Fund’s poverty reduction and growth facility They suggested that in its further definition of the instrument, the Bank should also address the nature of the analytic work needed to underpin it, such as public expenditure reviews and poverty and fiduciary assessments. They also requested the Bank and the Fund to review the modalities for their cooperation in implementing both the Bank's support credit and the Fund’s growth facility. Ministers stressed the importance of effective Bank-Fund coordination given the significant role the institutions play in support of poverty reduction in low-income countries
12.	Ministers reaffirmed the very important continuing role of the Bank Group in helping to reduce poverty in middle-income countries, home to so many of the world’s poor They stressed that the Group’s focus must be on providing support that the private sector cannot or will not provide, and on fostering private sector-led economic growth. They welcomed the creation of a task force to address how the Group can best respond to the evolving development needs of this diverse group of economies. Ministers agreed that the task force should consider, inter alia, the modalities of conditionality and instruments to maximize the effectiveness of Bank assistance for countries at different stages of development and reform; the scope and conditions for providing borrowers more financial support for social and structural programs at times of market dislocation; the coverage of economic and sector work; and the costs of doing business with the Bank, including the implications for pricing of Bank products Ministers looked forward to a progress report at their next meeting
13.	Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative Ministers welcomed the progress achieved in implementing the Initiative and urged that all appropriate steps be taken to further strengthen the process They noted that the enhancements endorsed at their meeting last year are resulting in “deeper, broader, and faster” debt relief to eligible countries undertaking the economic and social reforms needed to reduce poverty They noted in particular that, to date, 10 countries have reached their decision points under the enhanced framework, and work is being accelerated within that framework to try to reach the goal of bringing 20 countries to this point by the end of the year This is expected to result in combined debt service relief (including original and enhanced HIPC assistance) amounting to well over $30 billion. Taken together with traditional debt relief mechanisms, a total of about $50 billion will be provided to these countries
(continued next page)
14.	Ministers also welcomed the increased efforts to improve implementation of the Initiative They asked that the Bank and the Fund continue to work with other creditors and eligible countries to ensure that the modifications to the original HIPC framework (reflected in the enhanced Initiative endorsed a year ago), such as the provision of interim assistance beginning at the decision point and adoption of a floating completion point, provide the much-needed support to qualifying countries on a timely basis Ministers expressed support for the strengthened partnership between the two institutions in implementing the Initiative, and for their commitment to move forward as expeditiously as possible. It was recognized, however, that the pace of implementation would also be determined by country factors Ministers supported maintaining a flexible approach with respect to track record requirements They endorsed the extension of the "sunset clause" until end-2002 to allow additional countries, particularly those emerging from conflict, to participate in the Initiative Ministers also reiterated that within the existing HIPC framework the option exists, at the completion point, to reconsider the amount of debt relief for countries seriously affected by exceptional adverse shocks.
15.	Ministers stressed the importance of fully financing the enhanced HIPC Initiative, without compromising concessional facilities such as IDA. They urged all donors to meet their commitments of financial support, and welcomed the arrangements in place to accomplish this objective. While recognizing the special needs of particular developing and low-income transition country creditors, Ministers also urged all creditors to participate in the debt relief framework
16.	Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers: Ministers reviewed progress with respect to the Poverty Reduction Strategy approach, endorsed at their September 1999 meeting as a way to strengthen the link between poverty reduction, HIPC debt relief, and Bank and Fund concessional lending. They noted the growing momentum in the adoption of the approach and the positive response to it on the part of countries and development partners. Ministers recognized the challenges that countries faced due, inter alia, to limited data and institution-
al capacity, but urged movement from Interim to Full Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers on a timely basis. While strongly reiterating the core principle of country ownership, Ministers called on the Bank, the Fund, and other agencies to provide appropriate technical support for countries' strategy preparation efforts.
17.	Comprehensive Development Framework Ministers expressed support for the comprehensive approach to development reflected in the framework and welcomed the progress being made, and the lessons learned, in implementing it in pilot countries. They recognized that implementation is still at an early stage and many country-specific challenges remain, but noted that a wider application of the framework is already taking place in the preparation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers which are based on the framework's principles, particularly that of achieving strong country ownership They looked forward to reports of further progress in implementing the Comprehensive Development Framework.
18.	IBRD Financial Capacity. Ministers reviewed the World Bank's updated report on this subject and confirmed that the Bank’s finances remained sound. At the same time, Ministers recognized that the Bank’s financial capacity may, in the case of significantly increased demand, limit its ability to respond Ministers requested management and the Executive Board to keep this subject under review, including the level of Bank reserves
19.	Bank-Fund Staff. Ministers took this opportunity to express, on behalf of all member governments, their appreciation to Fund and Bank staff for their continued hard work and high level of dedicated service for the goals of the Bretton Woods Institutions.
20.	Note of Appreciation: Ministers expressed their deep gratitude for the warm hospitality and support provided by the Czech authorities and the people of the Czech Republic.
21 Next Meeting' The Committee's next meeting is scheduled for April 30, 2001, in Washington, D.C.
1. The 63rd meeting of the Development Committee was held in Washington, D.C., on April 30, 2001 under the chairmanship of Mr. Yashwant Sinha, Minister of Finance of India. The Committee also met on April 29, 2001 in joint session with the International Monetary and Financial Committee to focus on strengthened cooperation to foster growth and fight poverty in the world’s poorest countries Mr James Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank; Mr. Horst Kohler, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, and Mr. Joseph O Sanusi, Chairman of the Group of Twenty-four, addressed the plenary session Observers from a number of international and regional organizations also attended.
2	Strengthening the World Bank Group's Support for Middle-lncome Countries' Ministers broadly welcomed the proposals put forward by the Bank following the work of the World Bank Group Task Force on Middle-lncome Countries They noted that combating poverty in this group of countries was essential for meeting the Inter-national Development Goals, and reemphasized the Bank Group's important role in supporting these countries’ growth and poverty reduction efforts. The Committee noted that good policies, and the institutions to implement them, were at the core of successful development programs, and welcomed that an increasing number of countries were adopting this approach, that external resources were most effective when supporting such policies and institutions; and that even countries with access to international financial markets may benefit from Bank financial support since their access is often limited, volatile and restricted to short maturities Ministers recognized that such volatility can lead to disruptions and cause substantial adverse effects on poverty levels. Ministers stressed that since in most cases the Bank Group’s share of a country’s overall external financing is small, its role must be selective and strategic—as a catalyst for policy and institutional change, including capacity building as well as pro-poor policies, for stable and sustainable private investment flows, and for policy and financial support from development partners in promoting sustainable and equitable growth and poverty reduction
3	Following on their discussion of this topic at the Committee’s previous meeting, Ministers reiterated the need to tailor Bank Group support to the widely differing circumstances found among this diverse set of countries. The Committee stressed that to ensure country ownership, this support must be grounded in the country’s own vision of develop-
ment This should serve as the starting point for the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), backed by strong diagnostic and other economic and sector work. The Bank should systematize and strengthen its analysis of the country situation, including through expanding, in concert with its partners, support for local capacity building Ministers noted the particular importance of stronger analysis on structural, social, and sectoral issues and priorities, as well as on public expenditure, procurement, and financial management systems
4.	Ministers noted the importance of a menu of lending instruments, reflecting borrowers’ different needs, objectives, and track records and Bank Group comparative advantage They stressed that lending must be based on country commitment to poverty reduction The Committee reemphasized the continued importance of Bank investment lending, set within a sound CAS framework, as a powerful vehicle for transferring knowledge, testing and demonstrating new approaches, building government capacity and supporting the provision of needed social services and infrastructure. Ministers welcomed the improving quality and developmental focus of adjustment lending They stressed that its envisaged more systematic use must be matched by commitment to policy and institutional reforms or a proven track record. It must also be underpinned by adequate country policies and fiduciary systems and, where needed, action to strengthen them. In this regard they stressed the importance of strong capacity for managing and accounting for public expenditures They called for a more transparent and systematic approach to the monitoring and forecasting of the mix of overall IBRD lending—as between investment and adjustment lending—to complement the CAS process They also discussed the proposed deferred drawdown option and its potential value for a group of reforming countries, which is likely to be small in number, and encouraged the Bank to complete the work needed to finalize the proposal for consideration by Executive Directors.
5	Ministers urged the Bank to translate its proposals into specific actions for strengthening the Group’s analytic and financial support for middle-mcome countries They emphasized that the Bank must be highly selective in what it does, drawing increasingly on analyses by other development partners and by the countries themselves, and looking to development partners to take the lead in supporting reforms in particular sectors where they have a comparative advantage. They attached particular importance to the Bank and Fund using these proposals as an element in enhanced cooperation at the country level
(continued next page)
6	Harmonization of Operational Policies and Procedures: Ministers stressed the importance of harmonizing operational policies and procedures by the Bank, other MDBs, and bilateral aid donors, with the objective of enhancing development effectiveness, increasing efficiency, and reducing administrative burdens and costs on recipient governments The Committee stressed the need to move more rapidly, while maintaining appropriate standards, to harmonize aid management arrangements, in particular to help low-income countries implement their PRSPs. Ministers noted that harmonization in individual country programs provides a pragmatic approach that can lead to early action, and encouraged all development partners to rely increasingly on the borrower government’s own planning and budgetary processes, helping to strengthen these systems and processes where needed. Ministers urged them to work with developing countries to develop common good-practice approaches for procurement, financial management, and environmental assessments. They stressed that such approaches would provide a good basis for fostering capacity-building by guiding action plans designed to help countries address country prionties. They encouraged the World Bank and its partners—including other MDBs and the OECD/DAC Working Group on Harmonization—to work together to develop an overall framework (including time-bound action plans] to help guide and coordinate future work in this area. The Committee looked forward to receiving a report from the Bank on progress against an action plan of specific changes to its own procedures to facilitate harmonization.
7. Global Public Goods: The Committee welcomed the Bank’s progress in supporting global public goods in the areas endorsed by the Committee at its last meeting—i.e., communicable disease, trade integration, financial stability, knowledge and environmental commons. The Committee welcomed the Bank’s commitment to anchor its global public goods activities in its core business and country work, to remain selective and focused in each of these areas, to consolidate its cooperation and division of labor with other international partners, and to carry out further analytical work with its development partners on the financing arrangements and governance required for support of global public goods, including cautiously exploring a possible role for IDA grants.
8	Leveraging Trade for Development—World Bank Role: Ministers reemphasized the critical importance of trade for economic growth and poverty reduction and the important role the Bank, in collaboration with its partners, can play in helping developing countries to increase their ability to
access global markets In this context, they welcomed recent initiatives taken by a number of countries. The Committee broadly endorsed the global, regional and national level work program set forth in the Bank’s paper prepared for this meeting, including, most importantly, expanded activities at the country level which would increasingly be highlighted in the Bank Country Assistance Strategies This would include support for countries to address trade issues in their PRSPs. The Committee agreed on the particular significance of focusing on "behind the border" issues—such as investment regulations, obstacles to efficient transport of goods and materials, standards and technical regulations, telecommunications, and business services—to ensure that countries are able to take full advantage of the opportunities presented by globalization In response to the need to increase the capacity of the poorest nations to participate more effectively in the international trading system, the Committee urged the Bank to work together with its partners to achieve maximum benefits from the recently strengthened Integrated Framework for Trade Related Assistance for the Least Developed Countries. In this context the Committee welcomed efforts to untie aid, including the recent ad referendum decision by OECD donors to untie their aid to the Least Developed Countries
9.	HIV/AIDS' Ministers welcomed the rapid growth of global attention to HIV/AIDS in the year since the Committee had described the epidemic as a grave threat to development progress in many areas of the world, especially in Africa They noted with great concern, however, the still unchecked spread of HIV/AIDS, the growing evidence of its devastating toll, and the continuing need for greater government leadership Ministers urged that the new commitment reflected by many leaders of developing and developed countries be converted quickly into coordinated and focused international action for prevention, education and comprehensive care, including broader access to treatment. The Committee urged that the epidemic be addressed on a multi-sector basis, including a focus on HIV/AIDS in development policies and assistance to governments m health and other sectors In particular, Ministers suggested that World Bank Country Assistance Strategies analyze the impact of HIV/AIDS and indicate appropriate responses, working with partners in the context of each country’s national HIV/AIDS strategy. The Committee expressed its appreciation for the actions taken thus far by the Bank to implement the strategy that Ministers had reviewed a year ago, and encouraged the Bank to work with its partners to continue expanding efforts in all geographic regions. The Committee also urged the Bank and the United
Nations to play an active role as a facilitator of the improved links between the pharmaceutical industry and developing countries in support of AIDS-related programs The Committee also recognized the need for a substantial increase in global resources for HIV/AlDS-related analysis, research and action programs; a portion of such increased funding might be channeled through a possible new multilateral trust fund for AIDS, malaria and TB. The Committee also called on participants in the June 2001 UN General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS to make concrete commitments that would produce a rapid intensification of global action on HIV/AIDS.
10.	International Financial Architecture: Ministers welcomed the continuing contributions of the Bank and the Fund, in partnership with other groups, in strengthening the international financial architecture and helping countries build the capacity required to participate in, and benefit from, the global financial system The joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program and Bank-Fund collaboration on the Reports on Observance of Standards and Codes have established a valuable framework for helping countries strengthen their financial and economic systems The Committee welcomed the Bank-Fund Guidelines for Public Debt Management, which would help governments build capacity to manage their debt, thereby reducing vulnerability to potential financial instability Ministers also welcomed the Principles and Guidelines for Effective Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems and encouraged their further development based on close consultation with borrowing countries, additional comments received, continuing work with partner institutions, and experimentation with country assessments
11	Ministers agreed that money laundering is an issue of global concern, affecting both large and
small economies. The Committee generally agreed with the recognition of the FATF 40 recommendations as the appropriate standard for combating money laundering, and that work should go forward to determine how the Recommendations could be adapted and made operational in the work of the Fund and the Bank In this regard, the Committee noted that, to be consistent with the ROSC process, assessments should be undertaken on a uniform, cooperative and voluntary basis The Committee urged closer collaboration by the Fund and the World Bank with the FATF and other anti-money laundering groups in reviewing standards and procedures in this area Ministers also noted that the Bank and the Fund are already making valuable contributions through their ongoing programs to help countries strengthen their economic, financial and legal systems. They agreed that the primary responsibility for actions against money-laundering rests with the countries themselves and with specialized institutions that have a mandate and expertise in this area The Committee observed that the main focus of the Bank, consistent with its development mandate and comparative strengths, would be on enhanced support for capacity building and to help countries identify and put in place the policy and institutional foundations needed to reduce the risks of financial abuse
12. Next Meeting: The Committee’s next meeting is scheduled for October 1, 2001 in Washington, D C Ministers considered it might be timely at this meeting to discuss issues arising in connection with the U.N. Financing for Development event scheduled for early 2002, based in part on a continued exchange of views between their representatives at the United Nations and the Bank and the Fund Ministers also agreed to consider, at a future meeting, the subject of education, including implementation of the Dakar commitments on Education for All.