Message from the President of the World Bank and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors
A NEW GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR DEVELOPMENT
As a result of the events of the past year, more people than ever before have come to realize that no wall divides rich and poor nations. There are not two worlds. There is only one. And in this world, poverty is our collective enemy. This has been a year of tremendous challenges. But it has also been a period of reaching out, of standing together, a time of commitment to shared goals.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) represent an expanded vision of development with essential objectives, including halving world poverty by 2015. At the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002, the international community committed itself anew to achieving the goals. It formed a new global partnership—the Monterrey Consensus—that marks an important watershed in its aspirations to achieve the MDGs. Both developing and developed countries will play important roles.
Developing countries recognize that they must commit to good governance and sound policies, building the conditions for investment and empowering their people in the development process. They have pledged to use aid funds to build human capacity, focusing on education and health programs. They have pledged to fight the corruption that drains resources away from productive activities. They have taken the initiative to identify priorities and generate their own development policies while representing all constituencies, including women and the disadvantaged, in the process. The development community is committed to increasing the quantity and effectiveness of its support to developing countries as they move forward in these areas.
Developed countries acknowledge that they must provide more and better aid, improve policy coherence, and, critically, move forward on trade policies in support of development. In particular, it is essential to address policies that limit markets for developing countries’ products. Without greater access to global markets and the growth in trade that follows, many
developing countries will be severely constrained, not realizing their potential for investment, private sector growth, job creation, and sustainably higher incomes.
We in the development community are all agreed that the essential conditions to foster successful development include education and health programs that build human capacity; an effective system for infrastructure provision; good and clean government; effective legal and judicial systems; and well organized and supervised financial systems.
The Monterrey Consensus was a historic step forward. At last developing countries saw the promise of a turnaround in the access to trade and in the volume of aid, as an additional $12 billion was pledged by donor countries over the next three years. The challenge before us now is to translate the new global development partnership into action, redoubling our efforts on the part of developing countries and the broader international community.
What matters most is results. Over the past decades, impressive gains have been made in many countries in life expectancy, literacy, and poverty reduction. Because of better policies in developing countries, together with improved performance-based allocation in recent years, aid is more effective today at reducing poverty than ever before. But there is more to be done. With good results, we can open the door to increased resources for fighting poverty. Both developing and developed countries are now in a position to take the next steps toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Essential to those steps is the need for developing countries to use the new resources committed at Monterrey effectively. Donors should harmonize their lending policies and procedures, and untie aid, so that borrowing countries are not mired in unnecessary requirements and reports, and can obtain resources more efficiently. Donors should also commit to helping developing countries build capacity in government, business, and communities, listening to their expressed priorities.
The Monterrey Consensus is in line with the development strategy that the World Bank Group has been progressively pursuing in recent years. The Bank’s knowledge resources, based on more than fifty years of development experience, have played a vital role. There is now a broad acceptance of the Comprehensive Development Framework and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers by low-income countries and our development partners. I believe that country ownership of
this approach will increasingly broaden to embrace national parliaments, civil society, and the private sector. Country-led comprehensive processes enable clients to do an increasingly good job of setting clear priorities for policies and actions needed to deliver faster growth and poverty reduction. In each case, these priorities will need to reflect the country’s unique circumstances and needs and will often go beyond political cycles.
FOCUS ON POVERTY REDUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS IN EDUCATION
This year the Bank has played a leading role in relieving poor countries of debt in order to increase their resources for poverty reduction. Twenty-six countries are now benefiting from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, amounting to about $41 billion from all creditors in nominal debt service relief over time. Five more countries will soon be receiving relief under this program. Together with other forms of relief, HIPC cuts the total external debt in these countries by two-thirds. These countries can now spend between three and four times more per year on key social investments, such as education and health, than on debt service requirements.
Education is at the heart of poverty reduction. At its Spring Meetings this year, the Development Committee of the World Bank Group specifically endorsed an Action Plan for accelerating progress toward Education for All (EFA), which aims to provide every girl and boy with quality primary school education by 2015.
The case for faster progress toward this goal is clear:
113 million children of elementary school age in developing countries have either never set foot in a classroom or dropped out of school shortly after enrolling. The Bank has subsequently invited 18 countries to join an Education for All Fast Track and is working with 5 other countries to qualify them for the program. This is an initiative designed to help developing countries meet the 2015 education goal. Many more countries are expected to benefit from this initiative in the months and years to come.
We must continue to increase resources for poverty reduction in the poorest countries, for which IDA remains the largest source of concessional financing.
Its catalytic role can now be even greater with the 13th Replenishment of IDA (IDA13), which stresses working with other development partners and a strong focus on results. IDA 13 represents an 18 percent
increase over I DA 12, and reconfirms the commitment of IDA donors to addressing the goals highlighted in Monterrey. The increased grant funding within IDA is especially welcome and we are grateful to the donors for this new development.
In the past year, the World Bank Group has developed and communicated its strategy, approach, and priorities, and established many of the procedures and tools needed to translate those broad directions into concrete actions that can be monitored. With our strategy established, our focus will continue to be on implementation. We will work to scale up our impact because of the scale and urgency of the global poverty challenge. Where the Bank has been successful in the past, we know that country leadership and our strong partners in development have played important parts. We will continue to work with our partners to find more effective ways to help clients formulate their policies and build institutions. By sharing and applying the
Bank’s considerable knowledge resources we can assist our development partners and client countries in identifying successful poverty reduction efforts and in carrying them out on a wider scale. I am especially grateful to the management and staff of our World Bank Group for their selfless efforts.
In a changed world, the new partnership of nations can make the difference in the lives of poor people. The time for action is now. The opportunity is here. We must stand firm in our fight against poverty and aim to achieve a drastic reduction of it in our lifetime, for the sake of our children. We must commit ourselves to a poverty-free and inclusive world with renewed vigor.
The Board of Executive Directors
From left to right (standing) Tom Scholar, Luis Antonio Badumo, * Neil Francis Hyden, Mohamed K Amr, * Pieter Stek, Pierre Duquesne, Eckhardt Biskup, * Pietro Veglio, Finn Jenck, Mario Soto-Platero, Girmai Abraham, Yuzo Harada, Abdul Aziz Mohd Yaacob, Bassary Tour£, Emm Dedeoglu, * (seated) Zhu Guangyao, Yahya A M Alyahya, Carole Brookins, Balmiki Prasad Singh, Sharon Weber, * Helena Cordeiro, * Ahmed Sadoudi * Alternate (some directors or alternates were not available for this photograph)
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank’s general operations and perform their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement,
5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by the member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit and guarantee proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the Bank’s general operations. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the Bank’s operations and policies as well as other matters. In shaping Bank policy, the Board of Executive Directors (the Board) takes into account the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group as well as the Bank’s operational experience. In this regard, an important role
is played by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), which is accountable directly to the Board to perform evaluations as set out in OED’s Board-approved policies, strategies, and work program. OED provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations. During fiscal 2002 the Executive Directors regularly met at Bank headquarters to carry out their responsibilities. Directors also serve on one or more of five standing committees: Audit, Budget, Development Effectiveness, Personnel, and Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters. The committees help the Board discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies and practices.
Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors also periodically visit borrowing countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide range of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, and government officials, as well as nongovernmental organizations, the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. This year, Directors visited the
European Union in Brussels, and also Algeria, the Arab Republic of Egypt, and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Directors also play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings of the joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund (Bank-Fund) Development Committee. In fiscal 2002 the Development Committee addressed the World Bank’s response to the events of September 11,2001, for low- and middle-income countries, the U.N. conference on Financing for Development, development effectiveness, education for dynamic economies, and a number of other issues including heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC), anti-money-laundering activities, and harmonization of multilateral development banks’ (MDBs’) operational policies and procedures. (See appendix 13 in volume 2 of this Annual Report.)
STRATEGIC ISSUES
The major areas of Board emphasis during the fiscal year are highlighted below.
Strategic Framework
The Board’s work during fiscal 2002 was based heavily on the Strategic Framework and Strategic Directions Papers discussed in fiscal 2001, and reflected recent progress in aligning Bank Group strategies and policies with its core poverty reduction objective. Directors also reviewed a Strategy Update Paper for fiscal 2003-05 focusing on implementation of the Bank’s Strategic Framework. Within this context they reviewed a number of Sector Strategy Papers designed to help define the Bank’s role in poverty reduction at the sector level, including strategies for the environment, gender, information and communication technologies, and private sector development.
The Bank Group’s Role in Poverty Reduction
The Board continued to closely monitor implementation of the Bank’s poverty reduction mandate. It considered seven Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) and nine interim PRSPs, and they reviewed three PRSP Progress Reports, pointing out areas where further refinement would be useful. In addition, Directors discussed a joint Bank-Fund comprehensive Review of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) Approach. Meanwhile, the Board continued to focus attention on the enhanced HIPC Initiative. They considered 11 HIPC documents (comprising 4 Prelimi-
nary, 3 Decision Point,1 and 4 Completion Point2 documents) and considered a number of joint Bank-Fund papers, including “HIPC Initiative: Status of Implementation”; “HIPC Initiative: Completion Point Considerations”; “External Debt Management in HIPC Countries”; and “Actions to Strengthen the Tracking of Poverty-Reducing Public Spending in HIPCs.” The Board’s poverty reduction work was heavily influenced by the determination to spur progress in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), with the objective of halving world poverty levels by the year 2015.
Country Programs
Country assistance strategies (CASs) remained the cornerstone of Bank Group work at the individual client level, including the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) principles of ownership, partnership, and a focus on results. The Board reviewed 34 CASs and CAS products during the fiscal year. Periodic meetings of the CDF Learning Group dealt with issues such as selectivity and alignment. The Board also participated in ongoing work on refining and modernizing the Bank’s lending and nonlending instruments, and provided guidance on a number of papers in this area, including design features for the Deferred Drawdown Option for use with IBRD adjustment loans for middle-income IBRD member countries.
Global Programs and Partnerships
The Bank Group continued to strengthen cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (the Fund, or IMF), other MDBs, and the U.N. system, while increasing its outreach to civil society. Directors also took an active role in considering priorities in relationships with other development partners. Collaboration with the IMF was especially prominent in the work on PRSPs and the HIPC Initiative, as well as the work on
1.	Decision point: The point at which the international community agrees—for countries with unsustainable debt levels and a solid record on economic reform and poverty reduction programs—
on the amount of relief needed to reduce outstanding debt to a sustainable level. Multilateral creditors, including IDA, begin providing significant “interim assistance” beginning immediately at the decision point.
2.	Completion point: The point at which all creditors provide, unconditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed on at the decision point. The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country’s PRSP.
debt sustainability and public sector management. This included a joint Bank-Fund paper on strengthening Bank-Fund collaboration on country programs and conditionality, and a paper on enhancing operational coordination on financial sector issues. Work was also carried out with other MDBs and bilateral aid agencies on the harmonization of operational policies and procedures culminating in a “Progress Report on the Harmonization of Policies, Procedures, and Practices.”
In addition, the Board approved key recommendations in a review of the Bank’s policy on information disclosure, which was drafted in close consultation with clients and civil society. Board members were heavily involved in preparations for the March 2002 U.N. conference, Financing for Development, which addressed issues such as the role of the MDGs, strengthening the conditions for investment and growth, promoting the integration of developing countries into the international trading system, the importance of enhancing development assistance flows, and the challenge of cooperation and coordination among donors to reduce the transaction costs of aid. Directors also took an active interest in progress on refining the Bank’s knowledge strategy and establishment of the Development Gateway Foundation.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibility on behalf of its shareholders, in part through its Audit Committee. The Committee reviewed its terms of reference to reflect the evolving scope and responsibilities of audit committees’ roles in risk management. The Committee advises the Board on financial management and other governance issues to facilitate Board decisions on financial policy and control issues.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The administrative budget for fiscal 2002, reviewed by the Budget Committee and approved by the Executive Directors, was $1,589.7 million, net of
reimbursements, and included $176.9 million for the Development Grant Facility. The administrative budget represented a 4.6 percent real increase over the fiscal
2001	budget. In June 2002 the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $1,672.6 million for fiscal 2003.
INSPECTION PANEL
The Board created an independent Inspection Panel in 1993 to address more closely the concerns of people affected by Bank projects and to ensure that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures in the design, preparation, and implementation of projects. Any group of individuals who believe they may be harmed by a Bank-supported project may ask the Panel to investigate complaints that such harm stems from the Bank’s failure to abide by its policies and procedures. The Executive Directors decide, on the recommendation of the Panel, whether an investigation will take place.
In fiscal 2002 the Inspection Panel received three new Requests for Inspection relating to (a) the Uganda: Third Power Project and the later approved Bujagali Hydropower Project, for which the Board approved an investigation; (b) the Papua New Guinea: Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan, for which the Panel did not recommend an investigation; and (c) the Paraguay: Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors, and the Argentina: SEGBAV Power Distribution Project, for which the Panel registered the Request for Inspection.
The Board considered the Panel Investigation Report and the Bank management recommendations on the Uganda Bujagali Project, and approved management’s recommendations to address the Panel’s findings. In addition to the Uganda investigation, the Panel is conducting two other investigations, approved by the Board, which relate to Requests for Inspection received in fiscal 2001 concerning (a) the Chad Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, and (b) the India Coal Sector Environmental and Social Mitigation Project. Twenty-six requests have been filed since the establishment of the Panel.
The World Bank Group
The World Bank Group,
with a mission to fight poverty and improve living standards for people in the developing world, is among the world's leading development institutions. It provides loans, policy advice, technical assistance, and knowledge-sharing services. IBRD and IDA—together, the "World Bank"—are owned by member countries that carry ultimate decisionmaking power. The World Bank Group today consists of five closely associated institutions.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Established 1945 ■ 183 members Cumulative lending: $371 billion Fiscal 2002 lending: $11.5 billion for 96 new operations in 40 countries
The Turkey Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction (MEER) Project set a new standard for delivery of natural disaster intervention that balances reconstruction and recovery activities with disaster risk mitigation and emergency preparedness efforts The MEER team received the 200 / President's Award for Excellence.
IBRD aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development through loans, guarantees, and nonlending—including analytical and advisory—services. IBRD does not maximize profit but has earned a net income each year since 1948.
Its income funds several developmental activities and ensures financial strength, which enables low-cost borrowings in capital markets and good terms for borrowing clients.
IBRD’s 24-member Board represents all 183 members and is made up of 5 appointed and 19 elected Executive Directors.
The International Development Association
Established 1960 ■ 162 members Cumulative lending: $135 billion Fiscal 2002 lending: $8.1 billion for 133 new operations in 62 countries
IDA finances improvements in the quality of and access to basic services in education, health care, clean water, and sanitation. This culvert is being constructed under the IDA-funded feeder road project in Zambia.
Contributions to IDA enable the World Bank to provide $7 billion to $8 billion per year in interest-free credits to the world’s 79 poorest countries, home to 2.5 billion people. This support is vital because these countries have little or no capacity to borrow on market terms. In most of these countries, the vast majority of people live on less than $2 a day, and 4 out of 10 people survive on less than $1 a day.
IDA is financed by a partnership of donors who come together every three years to agree on the resources required to fund IDA’s lending program and to determine the policy objectives that guide IDA’s activities.
The International Finance Corporation
Established 1956 ■ 175 members Committed portfolio: $21.6 billion (includes $6.5 billion in syndicated loans) Fiscal 2002 commitments: $3.6 billion in 204 projects in 75 countries
IFC's Mekong Project Development Facility assisted this locally owned small business in Vietnam in developing strong management practices that are critical to its commercial success.
The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Established 1988 ■ 157 members Cumulative guarantees issued: $10.34 billion
Fiscal 2002 guarantees issued: $1.36 billion1
An employee of a MIGA-backed bottling company in Brazil weighs recyclables brought to school by students.
The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
Established 1966 ■ 134 members Total cases registered: 103 Fiscal 2002 cases registered: 16
A highway construction project in Morocco is being arbitrated at ICSID.
IFC promotes economic development through the private sector. Working with business partners, IFC invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing countries without accepting government guarantees. It provides equity, longterm loans, loan guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to its clients. IFC seeks to reach businesses in regions and countries that otherwise would have limited access to capital. IFC provides finance in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation and adds value to the projects it finances through its corporate governance, environmental, and social expertise.
MIGA helps encourage foreign investment in developing countries by providing guarantees to foreign investors against losses caused by noncommercial risks, such as expropriation, currency inconvertibility and transfer restrictions, war and civil disturbance, or breach of contract. In addition, MIGA provides technical assistance to help countries disseminate information on investment opportunities. The agency also provides investment dispute mediation services upon request.
1. Includes $136 million leveraged through the Cooperative Underwriting Program.
ICSID helps to encourage foreign investment by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, in this way helping to foster an atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and foreign investors. Many international agreements concerning investment refer to ICSID’s arbitration facilities. ICSID also has research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law.
Chapter 1
Meeting the Poverty Challenge: The World Bank's Goals and Strategies
Nearly half of the world’s 6 billion people live on less than $2 a day; one-fifth—1.2 billion—live on less than $1 a day.
The World Bank is an international organization of more than 180 member countries. Its mission is to fight global poverty, and it uses its resources and collaborates with others to help client countries achieve sustainable and equitable growth.
Despite significant progress in the past few dccades, far too many people in the developing world still subsist at income levels insufficient to meet basic human needs. The poor lack opportunity. They lack voice. They are vulnerable to sickness, violence, and natural disasters. They lack such basic services as education, primary health care, and access to drinking water. Their life expectancy is still a fraction of that achieved by people in industrial countries decades ago. There are far too many children, particularly girls, not in school and thus facing a bleak future.
This year in particular, world leaders recognized that such poverty must be addressed in the interests of the world community, world peace, and security. Attacking poverty in poor countries is one of the greatest challenges facing the global development community as the world moves into the 21st century.
THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In recognition of the enormous challenge of global poverty, the international development community has, since 1990, adopted specific targets for poverty reduction, now known as the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). These goals, which have been embraced by the World Bank and which provide a focus for its development programs, are:
Goal I: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education
Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women
Goal 4: Reduce child mortality
Goal 5: Improve maternal health
Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases
Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability
Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development
The Bank’s store of development knowledge plays an important role as it expands its efforts to help countries achieve the MDGs. Information on successful approaches and projects in low- and middle-income countries is shared across the Bank and with clients, and can lead to successful replication elsewhere.
Progress toward the MDGs is discussed in chapter 3.
THE WORLD BANK'S PRIORITIES FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
The trends in poverty indicators have challenged the Bank and the wider development community to reflect on what has worked and what has not in the support of developing countries’ poverty reduction efforts. Developing countries need to grow rapidly in order to make a significant reduction in poverty and achieve the MDGs. The Bank’s Global Economic Prospects 2002 shows that the target of halving dire income poverty by 2015 can be met only if the average per capita gross domestic product growth rate for developing countries can be sustained at 3.6 percent a year, or twice the
1990s average of 1.8 percent. Under this scenario of robust growth, the incidence of those living on less than $1 a day could fall to 12 percent and their absolute numbers could drop to about 750 million by 2015.
Even then, many countries would still not reach the goal. In Africa, for example, the incidence of poverty would only fall to 39 percent and the number of poor would increase to 345 million, compared with 240 million in 1990 and 300 million in 1999.
Recent research has shown that aid works best when a country’s overall policy and expenditure framework is appropriate, its institutions are strong, its private sector is vibrant, and its government and people together are strongly committed to reform. There is also a clear recognition of the multidimensional nature of poverty and the interdependencies among the MDGs. The Bank recognizes that two important engines of economic growth that will benefit the poor are the private sector and poor people themselves. As a result the Bank’s strategic priorities are based on two pillars: building the climate for investment, jobs, and sustainable growth; and investing in poor people and empowering them to participate in development. In addition, the Bank recognizes that some of the most pressing development concerns reach across country boundaries and must be addressed on a worldwide scale through internationally coordinated efforts. Dealing with the many urgent global priorities, such as the provision of global public goods, will require better management and financing of cross-cutting issues.
Building the Climate for Investment, Jobs, and Sustainable Growth
The Bank helps clients to enhance investor confidence and private investment, both domestic and foreign. It supports rural and urban development, the building of effective infrastructure, financial sector reforms, regulatory reforms, and competition policies. Financial sector reforms promote stability, transparency, access, and competition. In addition, the Bank supports measures to improve public sector governance as a necessary condition to the engagement of the private sector in economic growth. Improved governance focuses on the rule of law and anticorruption efforts, public administration and civil service reform, and judicial reform.
Investing in Poor People and Empowering Them to Participate in Development
The Bank recognizes that the MDGs can be achieved only through the empowerment of poor people as participants in development. Engaging poor people in the development process leads to more effective and vital poverty reduction efforts. Gender mainstreaming, civic engagement, and social risk management are priority areas. The Bank recognizes both education and health programs as essential to empowerment efforts. Activities in education focus on access to education for all and on building human capacity for the knowledge economy. Health activities focus on maternal and child health care, access to clean water, and sanitation.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Bank addresses global issues where common action can alleviate adverse conditions that all developing countries share. Five areas requiring specific attention are communicable diseases, the environment, trade and integration, information and knowledge, and international financial architecture. Communicable disease priorities include fighting human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), tuberculosis, malaria, and childhood diseases, as well as promoting vaccines and drug development to combat major communicable diseases. Environmental priorities include addressing climate change, access to water, protection of forests, biodiversity, ozone depletion, and land degradation; and promoting agricultural research. Trade activities aspire to help make the world trading system more conducive to development by promoting market access by developing countries and fostering their effective participation
in global and regional trade negotiations. At the national level, activities are aimed at helping developing countries harness trade by integrating pro-poor reforms into their national development and poverty reduction strategies. (See box 1.1, Globalization and Trade.) Information and knowledge priorities include redressing the digital divide and equipping countries with the capacity to access knowledge, and promoting the understanding of development and poverty reduction. Financial architecture includes developing international standards, financial stability, and international accounting and legal frameworks.
POVERTY REDUCTION AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL
The Bank’s approach to poverty reduction is tailored to each country’s particular needs. The country business model is centered on the country’s vision, a good diagnosis of the policies proposed, a Bank program to support the vision, and a focus on results. It translates into specific approaches to support low- and middle-income countries.
In this regard, the Bank’s corporate advocacy priorities are critical enablers of poverty reduction, translating the two pillars into action at the country level. The priorities include a focus on the investment climate and public sector governance; empowerment, security, and social inclusion; education; and health. The Bank builds awareness of these priorities and shares knowledge with clients, development partners, and other stakeholders.
Low-Income Countries
The Bank’s task of poverty reduction is particularly challenging in low-income countries, where the incidence of poverty is highest, the institutional constraints are most severe, the policy environment is most hostile to private investment, and access to resources is most limited. Bank programs in these countries emphasize country ownership of development priorities.
The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach is a major recent addition to the global effort to attack poverty based on nationally owned strategies for poverty reduction that serve as a framework for development assistance. The approach is founded on the principles underlying the Comprehensive Development Framework—that is, PRSPs are to be country driven, results oriented, comprehensive, long-term in perspective, and designed to foster strong domestic and external partnerships.
Ownership means that PRSPs are prepared by the countries themselves, relying on broad-based participatory processes and reflecting countries’ unique circumstances and needs. It is recognized, however, that many poor countries need time to prepare full PRSPs; therefore, interim PRSPs, or I-PRSPs, with a relatively simple format, have been introduced to avoid holding up the countries’ access to concessional assistance (nointerest loans) and debt relief. Once prepared, PRSPs are expected to be living documents, revised every few years in light of experience. Whenever an I-PRSP or full PRSP is prepared, the Executive Boards of the Bank and the Fund review its suitability as a sound basis for concessional lending (and, where appropriate, debt relief), supported by a Joint Staff Assessment prepared by Bank and Fund staff. Poor countries have responded positively to the approach, recognizing that PRSPs are their documents expressing their priorities. (See chapter 4, box 4.1.)
Poverty Reduction Support Credits have been introduced to provide targeted support in line with countries’ strategic priorities for poverty reduction. Bilateral and other multilateral donors are increasingly supporting the concept of aligning their assistance programs with country-owned poverty reduction strategies. (See also Special Assistance in Fiscal 2002 in chapter 2.)
Low-income Countries under Stress
The Bank has recognized the need to identify a more effective approach to those low-income countries with chronically weak performance indicators, either where it has had limited engagement in the last decade or where its traditional instruments have not been successful. In fiscal 2002 a task force set out to identify the key distinguishing characteristics of these countries and to propose a suitable combination of instruments for the Bank to use in support of their development priorities.
BOX 1.1 GLOBALIZATION AND TRADE
Globalization—the growing integration of economies and societies around the world resulting from increased flows of trade, capital, people, and ideas— remains one of the most debated issues of our time. The World Bank has made important contributions to the discussion of globalization in the areas of research and ideas. In fiscal 2002 the Bank published the Policy Research Report Globalization, Growth, and Poverty: Building an Inclusive World Economy. The report summarized the findings pf a large-scale Bank research program on the various dimensions of globalization. The study found no evidence that there is growing inequality within thejtypical developing country that is opening up to the global economy. In fact, some of the fastest-growing locations in the world are places in the developing world that were extremely poor ,20 years ago but that have made serious efforts to integrate with the world market. Bangladesh, China, India, Uganda, and Vietnam are all examples of globalizing developing countries that have experienced unprece-
'I
dented poverty reduction. On the other hand, many low-income countries!are actually less integrated into the world economy t«day than 20 years ago, and in
general, these countries have seen negative growth and rising poverty. Clearly, helping countries that want to integrate with the global economy is an important task for the World Bank Group.
Investment Climate
Two of the research findings from the Bank's work on globalization have shed light on crucial tasks that would enable more poor countries to participate in and benefit from globalization. This has helped sharpen the institution's strategic focus. The first issue is the improvement of the investment climate. Many developing countries have carried out first-generation reforms, including liberalization of formal trade policies. The locations that benefit the most from these reforms are those that have reasonably good investment climates: a regulatory environment in which firms can start up, increase productivity, and expand; efficient public services, such as customs administration; and complementary infrastructure, such as power, ports, and telecommunications—services that can be provided by the private sector given a proper legal and regulatory framework.
(Box 1.1 continues on the following page.)
Recognizing the importance of good investment environments, the Bank Group has started a large-scale effort to help developing countries assess their investment climates and the impact of specific bottlenecks through surveys of private firms, and to analyze the impart of different bottlenecks on productivity. The Bank's Private Sector and Infrastructure Network and its Development Economics Group have started a joint Investment Climate Unit to increase such support to countries.
Social Protection
A second important issue that has been highlighted by the work on globalization concerns social services and social protection. Integration with the global economy leads developing countries to grow faster because it creates a more dynamic environment in which there is greater competition and entry and exit of firms. But this dynamism has a clear social cost: there will be more turnover in the labor market, highlighting the need for good social protection. Furthermore, the jobs created in developing countries as a result of foreign trade and investment will generally have higher skill requirements than most existing jobs. This upgrading can be a powerful force for aggregate productivity growth, but it is crucially important that it be supported by a good educational system and that the poor, in particular, have good access to basic education.
Thus, going forward in the globalization debate, the Bank has an important role to play in research and in building the twin pillars of a sound investment climate and good social services with social protection.
The Global Arcnitecture ot Trade
An important role for the Bank is trade advocacy on behalf of developing countries. While developed countries have low trade protection, on average, the areas where they maintain protection are exactly the sectors where poor countries are potentially competitive, namely agriculture and labor-intensive manufactures. These sectors confront the greatest trade barriers, putting the world's poor at a particular disadvantage. According to estimates in the Bank's Global Economic Prospects 2002, the average poor person selling into globalized markets confronts barriers that are roughly twice as high as those facing the typical nonpoor worker. In general, tariffs in high-income countries on imports
from developing countries, though low, are four times those collected from industrial countries. Subsidies and other support to agriculture in the high-income countries are now running roughly $1 billion a day, or more than six times all development assistance worldwide.
The Bank's research has highlighted the cost to developing countries of Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development protection of textiles and garments, and subsidies to agriculture. It also points out the potential costs to developing countries from the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) Agreement, which requires 20-year patents on pharmaceutical products and imposes new legal and administrative costs on developing countries. The Bank has called for better market access by poor countries and for reform of TRIPS implementation to ensure access of poor countries to essential drugs.
Protection is not an issue solely for high-income countries, however. Developing countries have also placed high barriers on agricultural products, laborintensive manufactured goods, and other products and services. Developing-country tariffs in manufacturing are, on average, four times higher for imports from developing countries than are tariffs in industrial countries on imports from developing countries. Also, restrictions on services trade are usually more common in developing countries than in industrial countries.
Global Economic Prospects 2002 makes a case for reshaping the global architecture of world trade to promote development and poverty reduction by focusing on four policies: using the World Trade Organization (WTO) ministerial to launch a development round of trade negotiations that would reduce global trade barriers; engaging in global collective action to promote trade outside the negotiating framework of the WTO, including increasing multilateral aid-for-trade assistance; adopting protrade development policies of high-income countries unilaterally; and enacting new trade reforms in developing countries. Some 2.8 billion people live on less than $2 a day. The current projected baseline growth could reduce poverty by 600 million to
2.2	billion by 2015. The report argues that seizing the opportunity to reshape the global trade architecture in this way would enable developing countries to grow at rates that could reduce such poverty to 1.9 billion by 2015, effectively lifting an additional 300 million people above the $2-a-day poverty line.
Middle-income Countries
A substantial proportion of the world’s poor live in middle-income countries. The Bank has an essential role in helping these countries reduce poverty and advance toward becoming developed market economies. These countries generally have access to the international capital markets, although that access is limited and often volatile. For these countries the key to development and poverty reduction lies in enhancing private investment and strengthening the investment climate, and establishing efficient and equitable social expenditure programs geared toward building human capital and providing equality of access to economic opportunity.
The crucial roles for the Bank are to help these countries with the complex structural, social, and institutional reforms that make them attractive to private investment; support their restructuring and investment needs while access to long-term capital is still constrained; help them reduce the concentrations of poverty that remain; assist them in reducing vulnerability to economic shocks and in mitigating the social impact of crises; and support the country-level implementation of the global public goods agenda.
One of the keys to rapid poverty reduction in middle-income countries lies in the growth of the private sector. The Bank continues to help countries complete basic market-opening reforms while also supporting the complex structural and social reforms that generally follow. As reforms take hold, countries become more attractive to private investors, both domestic and foreign. The Bank uses a number of instruments to catalyze and leverage the private sector, including offering partial credit and partial risk guarantees to mobilize private sector financing for individual projects. Its support for financial sector development draws on the complementary roles of IBRD,
IFC, and MIGA.
POVERTY REDUCTION AT THE GLOBAL LEVEL
The scale and complexity of global poverty make it imperative that the different development agencies— governments, multilateral and bilateral organizations, the private sector, and civil society organizations—join forces to work on the most important and difficult issues of development. The World Bank has forged partnerships with a number of such organizations over the past few years around specific issues or programs of global importance. The institutional partnerships
include bilateral aid agencies, the United Nations and its various specialized organizations, the IMF, other multilateral development banks, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), nongovernmental organizations, and private foundations. These partnerships have led to a number of successful global initiatives dealing with global public goods. Two of the major global initiatives are highlighted here.
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is fostered by a broad-based partnership comprising the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the U.N. Development Programme (UNDP), 22 developing and 21 industrial countries, private foundations, and regional organizations. Since 1971 the Bank has provided strong support for CGIAR—a network of 16 Future Flarvest Centers that mobilize cutting-edge science to reduce hunger and poverty in developing countries, improve health, and protect the environment.
CGIAR recognizes that agricultural growth, while feeding the world’s growing population and reducing poverty, must be achieved through socially acceptable and environmentally sustainable methods. Research is a key means of providing new crop and farming technologies. CGIAR research products are public goods freely available to all. The benefits are far-reaching. For example, CGIAR scientists developed quality protein maize that helps fight malnutrition, winning the World Food Prize. In West Africa’s humid regions, New Rices for Africa (NERICAs) are boosting rice production; in Guinea, NERICAs are planted on 90,000 hectares, saving $13 million in crippling import bills.
Global Environment Facility
The Bank has formed a strategic partnership with the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the only new funding source to emerge from the 1992 Rio Earth Summit. GEF, in partnership with the Bank, UNDP, and the U.N. Environment Programme, is a major catalyst for protecting the global environment. It fosters cooperation and finances actions to conserve biodiversity, reduce risks of climate change, protect the ozone layer, clean up international waters, stop land degradation, and eliminate persistent organic pollutants. GEF is the designated financial mechanism for
As one of the three implementing agencies of the Global Environment Facility, the Bank assists its member countries to conserve and sustainably use their natural resources.
the conventions on biological diversity, climate change, and persistent organic pollutants.
The Bank’s partnership with GEF has been instrumental in GEF’s success. Through the Bank-GEF Secretariat, the Bank plays a key role in managing GEF-financed projects.
As one of the GEF implementing agencies, the Bank helps its client countries to prepare and supervise GEF projects. More than 300 Bank-GEF projects, including some joint projects with other implementing agencies, are being carried out in 127 countries. The projects are financed by $1.5 billion in GEF grants and more than $9 billion in additional funding from public and private partners. The Bank also serves as the trustee of the GEF Trust Fund and provides administrative support for the GEF Secretariat. (See www.gefweb.org or www.worldbank.org/gef.)
KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Creating, sharing, and applying knowledge through its analysis and advisory services has always been an important part of the Bank’s role in assisting client countries to promote growth and reduce poverty. In recent years the Bank has begun to organize its knowledge activities in a systematic way. It focuses on three areas: making effective use of knowledge to support the quality of its operations; sharing knowledge with its clients and partners, leading to participatory development
activities supplemented with a range of technology-based programs to enhance knowledge sharing; and helping clients enhance their capacity to generate, access, and use knowledge from all sources.
The Bank’s global knowledge outreach initiatives include the World Bank Institute (WBI) learning programs, which broker and distill local and global knowledge; the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN); the Development Gateway; World Links; the Global Development Network; African Virtual University; and InfoDev. (Seewww.worldbank.org/ks/ initiatives.html.)
The growing awareness that the efficient use of knowledge makes the Bank a more effective institution has led to the mainstreaming of capacity building in its operational work. For example, a “knowledge economy assessment tool” is being used to help countries diagnose their policy and investment needs as they enter the global economy. In fiscal 2002 knowledge assessments were completed for China and the Republic of Korea, and they are under way in the Russian Federation and EU accession countries.
Capacity enhancement, especially in public sector management, is also critical in order for low-income countries to implement their poverty reduction strategies and provide improved basic public services. In response to increasing country demand, WBI leverages its partnerships with other content providers and donors to deliver, for example, courses for journalists, seminars for parliamentarians, and action-learning programs on anticorruption and legal and judicial reform for government officials and policymakers.
As part of its rapid response to the crisis in Afghanistan, the Bank is building a distance-learning center under its GDLN in Kabul at the request of the government’s Aid Coordination Agency.
FINANCING THE WORLD BANK'S POVERTY REDUCTION EFFORTS
The World Bank is a cooperative institution that mobilizes financing by means of outright contributions from the richer member countries for IDA, and by borrowing from the international capital markets for IBRD. It channels these resources for the benefit of the poor in borrowing countries.
The clients of IDA are the poorest countries, who usually cannot afford to borrow' on commercial terms. IDA offers concessional, no-interest loans (or credits) to the poorest countries, repayable in 35 to 40 years
The Bank offers an array of customized services through IBRD and IDA—including loans, technical assistance, and advice—to its developing and intransition member countries. It uses two basic types of lending instruments: investment loans and adjustment loans.
Investment Loans
Investment loans finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. The nature of the Bank's investment lending has evolved overtime. Originally focused on hardware, engineering services, and bricks and mortar, investment lending has come to focus more on institution building, social development, and the public policy infrastructure needed to facilitate private sector activity as the Bank's priorities have changed.
Adjustment Loans
Adjustment loans provide quick-disbursing external financing to support policy and institutional reforms. Adjustment loans were originally designed to provide short-term balance of payments support for macroeconomic policy reforms, including reforms in trade policy. Over time they have evolved to focus more on medium-term structural and institutional reforms in the financial sector, social policy, and public sector resource management.
after a 10-year grace period. In fiscal 2002 IDA provided $8.1 billion in financing for 133 projects in
62	low-income countries.
The clients of IBRD, on the other hand, are generally the middle-income countries and, because of the limitation on IDA resources, some of the larger low-income countries that are deemed creditworthy for borrowing. IBRD offers loans at near-market terms but with long maturities. In fiscal 2002 IBRD provided loans totaling $11.5 billion in support of 96 projects in 40 countries.
Poverty reduction is at the core of lending from both IDA and IBRD, through investments that support growth as well as investments in basic public services. (Box 1.2 describes the Bank’s lending instruments and the process of loan approval.) See chapter 2 for details of lending during the year.
Both investment and adjustment loans are used flexibly to suit a range of purposes.
How a Loan Is Made
Lending is developed in several phases. On the basis of economic and sector work, often supported by the Bank, the borrower identifies and prepares the project, and the Bank reviews its viability. During loan negotiations the Bank and borrower agree on the development objective, components, outputs, performance indicators, an implementation plan, and a schedule for disbursing loan funds. Once the Bank approves the loan and it becomes effective, the borrower implements the project or program according to terms agreed on with the Bank.
All loans are governed by the World Bank's operational policies, which aim to ensure that Bank-financed operations are economically, financially, socially, and environmentally sound. Fiduciary policies and procedures govern the use of project-related funds, particularly for the procurement of goods and services. Safeguard policies help to prevent unintended adverse effects on third parties and the environment.
The Bank supervises the implementation of each loan and evaluates its results. Three-fourths of outstanding loans are managed by country directors located away from the Bank's Washington, D.C., headquarters. Nearly 30 percent of Bank staff are based in nearly 100 eountrv offices worldwide.
Through partnerships with other institutions, cofinancing and trust funds are also made available for projects.
The Role of IDA
IDA is the world’s largest source of concessional financial assistance for the poorest countries and invests in basic economic and human development projects. Eligibility for access to IDA resources is governed by two basic criteria: a country’s relative poverty (as measured by per capita income) and its lack of creditworthiness. The operational income cutoff for IDA eligibility in fiscal 2002 is a per capita gross national income of $885. In order to receive IDA resources, countries must also be pursuing sound policies to promote growth and reduce poverty; IDA assistance is allocated based on annual assessments of countries’ policies and
institutions. In exceptional circumstances IDA extends eligibility to countries that are above the income cutoff but are not fully creditworthy to borrow from IBRD. Such exceptions have been made for small island economies.
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in striving for progress toward the MDGs. IDA supports countries in their development efforts by promoting sound policies to secure the basis for economic growth and poverty reduction. Policy priorities include improving the quality of and access to basic education by the poor; strengthening the fight against the spread of communicable diseases, including HIV/AIDS; and building a healthy investment climate. IDA is a leader among development institutions in targeting assistance to countries that pursue sound policies, and it has refined its performance-based allocation system to place an even greater emphasis on good governance.
IDA is financed by a partnership of donors, who conic together every three years to decidc on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA’s future lending program and to discuss lending policies and priorities.
Fiscal 2002 marked the last year of the 12th Replenishment of IDA, which funded commitments for fiscal 2000 through 2002. Special drawing rights (SDRs) of 8.7 billion were provided by donors, and SDR 6.6 billion came from internal resources, including repayments of past credits, service charges, and IBRD net income. (See chapter 2 for an update on IDA.) Figure 1.1 shows IDA’s increased effort in the social sectors.
The Role of IBRD
Countries with a per capita income of less than $5,225 that are not IDA-only borrowers are eligible to borrow from IBRD. Countries with higher per capita incomes may borrow under special circumstances or as part of a graduation strategy. It is important to note, however, that the amount that countries can borrow from IBRD depends on their creditworthiness. Thus, countries may be eligible to borrow but may not have access to IBRD resources because of poor creditworthiness. In addition, IBRD loans outstanding to any individual borrower, irrespective of its creditworthiness, may not exceed S13.5 billion.
Seventy-five percent of people who live on less than $1 per day live in countries that receive IBRD lending. IBRD borrowers are typically middle-income countries that enjoy some access to private capital markets. Some
a. Includes projects in both IDA-only and blend countries.
IDA commitment value of ongoing social sector projects Fiscal 1992: $8.1 billion Fiscal 1997: $13.2 billion Fiscal 2002: $13.7 billion
countries are eligible for IDA lending due to their low per capita incomes, but they are also creditworthy for some IBRD borrowing. These countries are known as blend borrowers. Kven excluding IBRD loans to the blend countries, a full 25 percent of those who live on
less than $1 a day live in countries that are IBRD borrowers. IBRD provides important support for poverty reduction by facilitating access to capital in larger volumes, on good terms, with longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than the market provides.
IBRD is a AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments. Its member borrowers have a voice in setting its policies. IBRD loans (and IDA credits) are typically accompanied by nonlending services to ensure more effective use of funds. Also, unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact rather than profit maximization.
In fiscal 2002 IBRD raised $23 billion at medium-to long-term maturities in international capital markets. The year’s funding volume was above the $17 billion raised in fiscal 2001. Borrowings, along with shareholder equity, fund IBRD’s loans and investments. Its financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its financial policies and practices, which are designed to maintain a high credit standing in the international markets.
Cofinancing
Cofinancing describes funds committed by official bilateral partners, multilateral partners, export credit agencies, or private sources to specific Bank-funded projects. Cofinancing enables the World Bank to leverage its resources with additional financing, often at no interest or as grants, to benefit the recipient country. Financing provided by multiple sources in support of individual projects also allows harmonization of policies and procedures, thus reducing the administrative burden on the recipient country and improving effectiveness. In fiscal 2002 IBRD and IDA financing of $19.5 billion was supplemented by $4.7 billion from such sources. (See chapter 2 for more on cofinancing.)
Trust Funds
A number of industrial countries, a few of the larger developing countries, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations maintain trust funds with the World Bank that can be used to supplement Bank resources for specific agreed-on initiatives. The trust funds available cover areas that facilitate grant funding of high-priority development needs, including technical assistance and advisory services, debt relief, and postconflict transition. In fiscal 2002, trust fund assets
grew to $5.34 billion. (See chapter 2 for more on trust funds.)
IMPROVING DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS: STRONGER FOCUS ON RESULTS
Development experience over the past 50 years has highlighted the importance of focusing on outcomes. Donors demand that funds provided by their taxpayers achieve results. The citizens of developing countries are impatient to see tangible improvements in their living conditions within a reasonable time frame. Both expect the World Bank and other development agencies to be able to demonstrate the results of joint efforts. Developing more accurate and timely data on social and economic outcomes and conducting independent evaluations of projects and country programs provide a basis for ensuring accountability and, more importantly, learning from experience. (Figure 1.2 shows official development assistance by country.)
The Bank has, in the last few years, significantly increased its focus on monitoring the quality of implementation, sustainability, and development outcomes of the programs it finances. Its monitoring and evaluation systems are being strengthened to more comprehensively capture the poverty impact of its policy-based and investment lending, as well as its advisory services, and will enable it to more closely track its progress toward meeting the MDGs. Evaluations of completed projects by the Bank’s Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) indicate continuing improvement, with 82 percent of the projects accounting for 78 percent of financing rated as satisfactory. OED has also conducted over 55 country assistance evaluations through fiscal 2002. Mechanisms are in place to monitor the quality of operations on an ongoing basis.
The World Bank periodically undertakes a broader assessment of its major programs, going beyond the assessments of individual operations. In fiscal 2002 an evaluation was carried out on IBRD and IDA lending going back 50 years. (See chapter 3 for a complete discussion of development effectiveness.)
OPENNESS AND TRANSPARENCY
Informing and consulting stakeholders has contributed to effective and sustainable development by stimulating debate, broadening understanding, and strengthening country ownership of development activities. Building on previous efforts to make more information publicly available, the Bank has revised its policy on information disclosure.
The changes were approved in August 2001 after the Bank published its draft review of the policy and held extensive consultations to solicit the views of civil society, industry groups, and governments in 21 countries around the world. The Bank also invited comments through its Web site.
Under the revised policy the Bank will release more project-related documents, and provision of Bank information and archives will be more systematic, timely, and user-friendly. The Bank also made plans that will, over time, substantially improve access to information through Bank offices in developing countries. Thirteen pilot programs across the Bank will enable Country Management Units to develop and test ways of making even more information available, especially for consultations associated with country strategy, lending preparation, and implementation.
Task forces have designed strategies for upgrading public information services worldwide. (See www.worldbank.org/operations/disclosure/ for the full text of the revised disclosure policy and updated procedural guidance on implementation.)
FISCAL 2002 HIGHLIGHTS
■	IBRD and IDA lending commitments increased to $19.5 billion, reflecting highest-ever lending levels by IDA, which reached $8.1 billion for 133 new operations. IDA'S strong lending program was driven by record lending to Africa and South Asia, which together accounted for $6.4 billion.
■	In fiscal 2002 Bank support to HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome) projects amounted to new commitments of over $300 million. Lending operations were approved in Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Jamaica, Madagascar, Nigeria, Senegal, and Sierra Leone, and HIV/AIDS components were significant in a number of other new and ongoing projects. The Bank supports HIV/AIDS work in over 64 countries. By far the greatest concentration of HIV/AIDS activities supported by the Bank has been in Africa.
To date, 16 Multicountry HIV/AIDS Programs (MAPs) totaling commitments of over $550 million have been prepared in record time in Africa to match the emergency nature of the epidemic.
The MAP approach has involved extensive collaboration with national governments, partners in the Joint U.N. Programme on HIV/AIDS, bilateral donors, the International Partnership against AIDS in Africa, key nongovernmental organizations, persons living with HIV/AIDS, and other key stakeholders.
The Bank's Board of Executive Directors approved a second phase of the approach, known as MAP2, in February 2002, earmarking another $500 million. MAPs, such as a fiscal 2001 MAP in the Caribbean, are channeling a substantial share of resources (in most cases about 50 percent) directly to local communities to carry out HIV/AIDS activities of their own design.
■	The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach, which stresses the centrality of country ownership based on broad participation for success in fighting poverty, received support from developing-country, donor, and civil society participants at the joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund PRSP review conference in January 2002. The approach gained momentum in fiscal 2002, when an additional nine countries completed interim PRSPs and seven countries completed their first full PRSPs.
■	The Bank studied the past 50 years of development assistance and recorded its findings in The Role and Effectiveness of Development Assistance: Lessons from World Bank Experience. The study took a broad view of the relationship between development experience and official development assistance over the past 50 years, with particular emphasis on the World Bank's experience in recent decades. It found that progress in improving well-being has been rapid, if uneven, and that— notwithstanding some significant shortcomings and failures—such assistance has often helped to underpin and support success. It also found that, in large part because of lessons that donors and governments have learned from both successes and failures, development assistance is becoming more effective in supporting growth and poverty reduction.
■	In March 2002 more than 50 heads of state gathered in Monterrey, Mexico, at the Financing for Development Conference, where they adopted the Monterrey Consensus, which calls for freeing trade, increasing aid, and reducing external debt to sustainable levels in order to provide countries that follow sound policies and good governance with the means to obtain the Millennium Development Goals. An additional $12 billion in aid over the next three years was pledged by donor countries at the conference.
■	In April 2002 the Bank approved its first operation in Afghanistan since 1979—a $10 million grant to assist the Afghanistan Interim Administration with key public administration functions—to enable it to effectively use its public resources, including millions of dollars in donor funding, for rebuilding and development. The Board of Executive Directors also endorsed the Transitional Support Strategy, the Bank's plan for support to Afghanistan for the following six to nine months.
In May the Bank opened its Afghanistan office and launched the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, to help the Afghanistan Interim Administration fund physical reconstruction projects and salaries for civil servants. The Bank provided a total of $100 million in grant financing in fiscal 2002 and has proposed a further $470 million for the lifespan of the transitional government elected by the Loya Jirga in June.
Chapter 2
Overview of World Bank Activities in Fiscal 2002
In fiscal 2002 the World Bank underscored its efforts in poverty reduction, forming new initiatives in response to world events. It assessed the impact on poor countries of the events of September 11 and offered special assistance to countries experiencing particular economic shocks. The Bank’s operations were temporarily affected this year as country teams adapted travel plans and worked to focus country activities with fewer missions.
Rich and poor nations fostered a new development partnership when they came together to address the challenges faced by the global community at the Financing for Development Conference in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002. The Bank, other multilateral organizations, and many countries pledged additional financial and technical resources to fight poverty.
GLOBAL CONTEXT
The global economic slowdown that began in fiscal
2001	was compounded by the economic aftermath
For poverty reduction, the Bank supports policies and projects to increase land access and productivity.
of the events of September 2001. Greater uncertainty and slower world growth resulted. The developing countries hardest hit were those dependent on commodity exports—as many commodity prices reached historical lows—and those with highly indebted emerging economies—as private investors reduced their exposure in emerging markets. Countries with high-tech sectors were also hard hit, and tourism industries suffered. Gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the developing and transition countries fell from a record average of 5.4 percent in calendar 2000 to 2.8 percent in calendar 2001, and per capita growth declined to 1.4 percent.
All regions showed a decline in GDP growth in calendar 2001, with the exception of South Asia, which grew at 4.3 percent, up from 4 percent in 2000. Growth in the East Asia and Pacific region slowed to 4.6 percent in 2001 from 7.4 percent the year before; it was affected by the collapse of global demand for high-tech commodities and the slowdown in tourism. Growth in the Middle East and North Africa region slowed to
3.1	percent in 2001 after above-average performance of 4.2 percent during 2000, largely due to falling oil prices. Africa grew by 2.6 percent, down from 3.1 percent the prior year. Europe and Central Asia grew by
2.2	percent, contrasted with 6.4 percent in 2000; it was affected by a contraction in Turkish exports and a fall in Russian growth. Latin America and the Caribbean registered the lowest growth rate at 0.6 percent, down from 3.8 percent in 2000; this reflected adverse external conditions, a progressive worsening of the political and economic situation in Argentina, and a steep decline
in tourist bookings. Even excluding Argentina, GDP in Latin America and the Caribbean grew by only 1.3 percent in 2001.
As in every slowdown, poor people pay the highest price. Without buffers or safety nets to rely on, their ability to satisfy basic needs is immediately at stake when their incomes decline. The Bank’s ability to
respond to the recent global shocks has proven the overall soundness of its approach in such situations. Its existing instruments and policies make available a wide variety of options for providing tailored financial assistance to its clients affected by the economic downturn. Civil conflict, terrorism, money laundering, and corruption have increasingly become the focus of international concern. The combined effects of slower economic growth, the significant decline of private capital flows, and growing populations in developing countries have increased the need for official development assistance.
THE WORLD BANK'S LENDING AND ADVISORY SERVICES IN FISCAL 2002
The Bank’s lending and advisory services focus on work at the country level and reflect the Bank’s focus on the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs), its corporate priorities, and its identified global public goods priorities. The Bank tailors its lending to the needs of individual countries while keeping in mind its larger overall goals.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
At $11.5 billion, new lending by IBRD in fiscal 2002 was $1 billion above the previous year’s level. The number of new operations approved was higher than last year, at 96.
New IBRD lending to Europe and Central Asia reached a record high of $4.9 billion, or 43 percent of total IBRD commitments, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean with $4.2 billion. The East Asia and Pacific region was third with $1 billion.
Public administration was by far the leading sector for IBRD lending, receiving $3.6 billion, over 30 percent of the total. The significant amount of lending in the public administration sector reflects the Bank’s focus on assisting its clients to improve development strategies, implement reform policies, and build institutional capacities. Lending to the finance sector was second, representing $2.1 billion, about 18 percent of the total. (Box 2.1 describes the Bank’s new coding system for lending.)
The prevalent themes correlated to the sector lending, with a major focus on strengthening the financial and private sector regulatory framework and improving public sector governance. Human development, economic management, and urban development were also supported.
BOX 2.1 NEW CODING SYSTEM FOR BANK LENDING
To better track the distribution of the Bank's work programs, a new two-dimensional coding system was implemented in fiscal 2002. All lending data in this report will reflect the new coding system. Each loan will be tracked by both theme and sector codes. The theme codes correspond to the goals and objectives of Bank activities, and the sector codes indicate the parts of the economy that directly benefit from Bank support.
The new coding system enables the Bank to better manage its portfolio and monitor progress toward achieving its goals as defined by its corporate priorities and the MDGs, while maintaining a focus on economic segments. It allows for up to five themes and five sectors per activity, recognizing that many Bank projects are multifaceted.
The picture generated by the new coding system will differ in many respects from the picture generated by the old system. In moving to a new system, and thereby establishing a new baseline, it is inevitable that significant shifts will appear to have been made in the Bank's portfolio.
For example, in the new system, all technical assistance provided to government agencies is assigned uniformly to the public administration sector, while the goal of the technical assistance (such as private sector development or environmental protection) determines the selection of the thematic code. Advisory services provided to a ministry of education, for example, are assigned to the public administration sector and an education category under the human development theme. This difference in coding rules explains the public administration sector's significantly higher share in the new coding system in comparison with the old one.
The share of adjustment lending by IBRD rose to a record high of 64 percent in fiscal 2002, compared with 38 percent in fiscal 2001, and with 47 percent and
63	percent during the East Asian crisis years of fiscal
1998	and 1999, respectively. Argentina, Brazil, Jamaica, Tunisia, Turkey, and Ukraine are among the countries where Bank lending sought to alleviate the effects of falling export demand, commodity prices, and capital market access. Figures 2.1 through 2.3 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector in fiscal 2002. Table 2.1 shows the Bank’s adjustment lending in 2000-02.
The International Development Association
IDA lending this fiscal year reached a record high of $8.1 billion for 133 operations, compared with $6.8 billion for 134 operations last fiscal year. (An IDA guarantee for $115 million was also approved for Uganda in fiscal 2002. This guarantee was not effective as of June 30, 2002.)
This robust lending program was driven by record lending to Africa and South Asia. Lending to Africa constituted nearly one-half of total IDA lending this year, with $3.8 billion financing 63 new operations.
The largest borrowers in this region included the Democratic Republic of Congo ($500 million),
Nigeria ($427 million), and Tanzania ($402 million). Lending to South Asia totaled $2.6 billion or about one-third of total IDA lending. The largest borrowers in this region were India at $1.3 billion and Pakistan at $800 million.
IDA’s investment lending was strong at $5.6 billion, accounting for 70 percent of new commitments. This includes $100 million in IDA grants to Afghanistan to support emergency reconstruction, education, public administration, and community empowerment.
A significant portion of IDA lending supported operations in the social sectors where $2 billion financed 44 projects in the areas of education, health, social services, and water and sanitation. Lending in the area of public sector administration was also substantial this year at $1.6 billion for 34 operations, reflecting the focus on supporting IDA countries in their effort to establish the efficient and accountable public sector institutions needed for growth and poverty reduction. This emphasis was also reflected in the thematic breakdown, where lending in support of public sector governance featured prominently, along with lending in the area of financial and private sector development. Figures 2.4 through 2.6 show IDA
Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding
lending by region, theme, and sector in fiscal 2002; table 2.2 shows overall IBRD and IDA lending by theme and sector for 1993-2002; and figures 2.7 through 2.9 show overall IBRD and IDA lending by region, theme, and sector.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 2002
Accelerated Debt Relief
Significant progress was made in fiscal 2002 in providing increased debt relief to some of the world’s poorest countries, many of them in Africa, under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCj Initiative, which was proposed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) and agreed to by the international community in 1996. It was the first comprehensive approach to reducing the external debt of the world’s poorest, most heavily indebted countries, and represented a major advance by placing debt relief within an overall framework of poverty reduction.
Early promise established the basis for an even more dynamic approach, and in 1999 multilateral organizations, bilateral creditors, HIPC governments, and civil society worked together to create a deeper,
broader, and faster initiative, providing more relief to more countries more rapidly.
Fiscal 2002 saw continued progress toward implementation of the HIPC Initiative, when four countries completed the initiative and three more countries qualified for assistance. Altogether, 26 countries are now receiving HIPC debt service relief that, under the current framework, is expected to amount to $41 billion from all creditors and to contribute to an overall reduction in debt stock of nearly two-thirds.
Notable progress was achieved in extending these benefits to countries emerging from conflict. Ethiopia and Sierra Leone received debt service relief, and preliminary work was commenced for the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo. Work continues in this area, as most of the HIPCs yet to qualify for relief are conflict affected.
Work was also stepped up in HIPCs to help them address the challenges of maintaining external debt sustainability over the long term, particularly in light of the weakened global economy and the effects of declining commodity prices. In addition to identifying the potential costs of the economic slowdown, steps were taken to help strengthen capacity in the public sector in
areas such as debt management and the administration of public expenditures. These are seen as critical to ending the debt problem and establishing the foundation for successful poverty reduction strategies.
When fully implemented, the expanded HIPC Initiative is expected to cancel more than $50 billion in the debt service of some 34 countries. Arguably more important, it has created a strong and transparent link between debt relief and poverty reduction by leading to the adoption of nationally owned Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) as the basis of HIPC relief and concessional lending. HIPC debt relief is shown in figure 2.10. Trends in social spending before and after HIPC relief are shown in figure 2.11.
Argentina
The Bank will direct $100 million from undisbursed existing loans to meet Argentina’s urgent social needs in health, education, and community development.
The funds will provide for primary health care and essential medicines for mothers and infants, educational supplies for public schools, and funds for social work, community kitchens, and work with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to administer the program.
Afghanistan
The Bank approved a grant of $10 million in direct budget support to the Interim Administration, and committed an additional $90 million in grant financing in fiscal 2002 for a series of reconstruction and capacity-building projects. It has proposed a further $470 million over two years beginning in fiscal 2003.
KNOWLEDGE SHARING
In fiscal 2002 the Bank continued to make effective use of knowledge to support the quality of its operations. Thematic technical units are charged with capturing the information the Bank and other institutions have acquired in their areas of specialty, and with using that knowledge to support the Bank’s operations in countries. Each thematic group has a Web site providing access to important studies and information relevant to the topic, as well as specially commissioned best-practice papers designed to distill the Bank’s unique experience in supporting projects in different countries.
Knowledge sharing with the Bank’s clients and partners has led to participatory activities in which
THEME
Economic Management Public Sector Governance Rule of Law
Financial and Private Sector Development
Trade and Integration
Social Protection and Risk Management
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion
Human Development
Urban Development
Rural Development
Environmental and Natural Resource Management
Theme Total
SECTOR
Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry
Law and Justice and Public Administration
Information and Communication
Education
Finance
Health and Other Social Services Industry and Trade Energy and Mining Transportation
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection
Sector Total
Of which IBRD Of which IDA
Note: Lending is summarized in the 11 main theme categories and 10 main sector categories in the new thematic-sectoral coding system, which includes 68 themes and 57 sectors. Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. Please see appendix 11 in volume 2 for detailed IBRD and IDA lending by theme and country.
a.	Bank lending in fiscal 1998 and 1999 are presented together, the two being exceptional years due to the East Asian financial crisis, b Excludes HIPC grants
government officials, NGO and private sector representatives, and donor government colleagues become part of a team that builds programs with genuine ownership and commitment on the part of the client government. The Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and PRSPs are products of this new way of working.
Ultimately, the success of national development efforts depends on the trained human resources and institutional arrangements available to carry them out. Supporting client countries to enhance their capacity to generate, access, and use knowledge from all sources is central to the Bank’s mission of poverty reduction.
The Bank’s approach to creating, sharing, and applying knowledge helps it to leverage its IBRD and IDA lending activities for a greater impact on development. Traditional analytical and advisory services include economic and sector work (ESW) and nonlending technical assistance. ESW, the Bank’s main analytical and advisory product line, provides the basis for the Bank’s policy dialogue with clients, the development of country strategies, and the formulation and implementation of effective lending programs. Nonlending technical assistance encompasses capacity-building efforts conducted jointly with clients. As the main analytical and advisory tool, the ESW program is closely monitored by the Bank.
In fiscal 2002,457 products were delivered for country clients, compared with 335 in fiscal 2001.
Of these, about 90 were core diagnostic reports, such as poverty assessments, country economic memoranda and development policy reviews, public expenditure reviews, country financial accountability assessments, and country procurement assessments. These support the Country Assistance Strategies (CASs), Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), and other adjustment lending. They also facilitate policy dialogue with clients.
Public sector governance had the largest share (25 percent) of the total ESW output in fiscal 2002, followed by economic management and financial and private sector development (15 percent each). Financial and private sector development, social protection and risk management, and human development reports provided the diagnostic bases for project design and country programming. Europe and Central Asia delivered 26 percent of the program, followed by Africa with 22 percent, and East Asia and Pacific with 16 percent. Country reports were supplemented by regional reports focusing on issues such as human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), rural and urban poverty, public expenditure management, gender, and labor.
The high commitment to public sector governance reflects the importance the Bank attaches to issues such as public expenditure management, financial management, corruption, procurement, civil service reform, and decentralization.
The Bank has worked with partners to divide responsibility for some diagnostic ESW at the country level, and to enable joint preparation and wider dissemination of the diagnostic work. Particular emphasis in fiscal 2002 was placed on trade, the investment climate, the MDGs, cross-country benchmarking,
(1999)	(2001-02)
and basic service delivery (to be examined in World Development Report 2004). Joint programs are being carried out between the Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Network and the Development Economics and Data Group (DECDG) on trade, the Human Development Network and DECDG on the MDGs, and among the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network, the World Bank Institute (WBI), and DECDG on PRSPs and other cross-sectoral issues.
FINANCIAL SECTOR ASSESSMENT PROGRAM
The IMF and World Bank have put in place the joint IMF-World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) following the East Asian crisis of the late 1990s. The objective is to help countries strengthen their financial systems and institutional infrastructure.
The program aims to improve the resiliency of national and international financial markets through in-depth assessments of the strengths, risks, and vulnerabilities of countries’ financial systems. The Bank’s contribution focuses on the financial sector’s institutional infrastructure and its ability to support broad-based inclusive development.
Twenty-one countries participated in the FSAP in fiscal 2002. FSAP reports were delivered this year to 12 countries, and Financial Sector Assessments for seven countries were delivered to the Bank’s Executive Directors.
A total of 55 countries will have participated in the program between its launch in May 1999 and the end of fiscal 2002. Between the inception of the program and the end of January 2002, over 190 standards assessments have been conducted, drawing on 157 experts from 127 cooperating official institutions.
THE WORLD BANK'S RESOURCES
The Bank’s resources in fiscal 2002 were drawn from member country shareholder equity and funds raised in international capital markets.
The International Development Association
Fiscal 2002 was the third year of the 12th Replenishment of IDA (IDA 12). This replenishment provided IDA with resources to fund credits committed during the period July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2002. Forty-one countries are now IDA donors. Historically, donor contributions have been determined based on countries’ relative economic strengths and on their commitment to poor countries, and as such the major industrial nations have been the largest contributors to IDA. Nevertheless, donor nations also include developing and transition countries—some of them IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers—such as Argentina, Brazil, Hungary, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Turkey. (For a complete list of IDA donors, see appendix 12 of the IBRD/IDA Appendixes in World Batik Annual Report 2002: Volume 2, Financial Statements and Appendixes.) IDA’s financial strength is based primarily on the strong and continued support of its donors, as well as on repayments of past credits. This year concluded the IDA 13 negotiations in which representatives from donor countries agreed on a framework for the projected IDA 13 program and associated financing needs. IDA 13 will make possible the commitment of special drawing rights (SDRs) of
18	billion (about $23 billion) to poor IDA members over the next three years, including approximately SDR 10 billion (approximately $13 billion) from new donor contributions. Within the IDA13 framework, donor representatives adopted a program for the increased use of IDA grants to help address the special difficulties faced by the poorest and most vulnerable countries. The framework also provides for the establishment of a results-based measurement system to link IDA programs to countries’ development outcomes. This year the replenishment discussions were opened up to representatives of borrowers and civil society, and background documents were made publicly available on the Bank’s Web site. Figure 2.12 shows the sources of IDA’s funding over the last three replenishments.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
As part of its regular financing operations IBRD raised $23 billion at medium- to long-term maturities in international capital markets in fiscal 2002. This funding volume was above the $17 billion raised in fiscal 2001. IBRD issued loans in 10 currencies, with a wide range of maturities and structures in fiscal 2002. Product diversification helps IBRD to expand its investor base and to reduce lending rates on its loans. IBRD’s financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices.
IBRD Financial Strength. IBRD’s operating income in fiscal 2002 was $1,924 million. IBRD retained $1,291 million out of operating income in its general re-
serve—higher than the previous year, when $618 million was retained—in keeping with IBRD’s strategy to preserve long-term financial strength and support other development needs. IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2002 to ensure sufficient cash flow to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2002, the liquid asset portfolio was $25 billion.
Managing Returns to Maintain Strength. As a cooperative institution, IBRD does not seek to maximize profit but to earn a return on assets sufficient to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities on an ongoing basis. IBRD achieves a net return on assets of about 1 percent per year. In fiscal 2002 the net return on assets recovered to the 1 percent level after declining below 1 percent in fiscal 2001 as a result of an increase in the provision for loan loss. Figure 2.13 shows the net return on assets for 1998-2002.
Managing Risk. Consistent with its development mandate, IBRD’s main financial risk is the credit risk of its loan portfolio. This risk is closely managed.
IBRD keeps its exposure to market risk quite limited. Some market risk arises due to movements in market variables, such as interest rates and exchange rates. IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio is a summary measure of its risk-bearing capacity. The ratio is conservatively managed in light of IBRD’s financial and risk outlook. Figure 2.14 shows the equity-to-loans ratio as of June 30, 2002.
Achieving Efficient Intermediation. IBRD enjoys an exceptional franchise in capital markets, reflecting the
a. In fiscal 2001 IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133 and International Accounting Standard No. 39, which require that derivative instruments be reported at fair value. The returns shown above for fiscal 2001 and 2002 are presented before the effects of these standards in order to facilitate comparison with prior years. With the inclusion of the effects of these standards, the ratios would be 0.87 and 1.87 for fiscal 2001 and 2002, respectively.
capital commitments of its sovereign shareholders and the preferred creditor status accorded by its borrowing members—which provide it a high credit rating (AAA) and allow it to borrow for long maturities on favorable terms. This is reflected in the relatively low cost basis of its new lending; an average spread of about 34.6 basis points (1 basis point equals 0.01 percent) below London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) in fiscal 2002; and the high volumes it can intermediate relative to its paid-in capital and retained earnings.
In fiscal 2002 the Bank’s outstanding borrowings from capital markets was in excess of $110 billion, while its total disbursed and outstanding loans were $122 billion. This was about five times the size of its equity. Figure 2.15 shows the Bank’s borrowings and investments as of June 30, 2002. Table 2.3 shows select IBRD financial data for fiscal 2001 and 2002.
DISTRIBUTION OF IBRD'S NET INCOME
IBRD’s net income serves several purposes related to the Bank’s mission.
A portion of net income is retained annually to ensure IBRD’s financial integrity. The general reserve allows IBRD to assume credit risk in lending to countries at the lowest funding costs—which in turn benefits borrowers. Income retention has enabled IBRD to maintain financial soundness through past periods of both deteriorating loan quality as well as surging loan demand.
Support to IDA has consistently been a priority. Over the last five years $ 1.622 billion (or about 24 percent of IBRD’s net income) has been transferred to IDA.
Support for the HIPC Initiative has also been important. Over the past five years transfers to the
a. Net of swaps.
HIPC Trust Fund have amounted to a total of about $890 million, averaging about 13 percent of annual IBRD net income.
IBRD’s net income helps meet other development needs from time to time. It enables IBRD to respond to unforeseen humanitarian crises and provide grants or other support for worthy causes. IBRD also regularly shares income with its borrowing members through partial waivers of the interest and commitment fees it contractually charges on its loans.
Financial strength and standing in the markets allow IBRD to leverage its equity by five times in the international bond markets. This leverage increases IBRD’s ability to lend for development activities.
Figure 2.16 shows the proposed allocation of the Bank’s net operating income.
Figure 2.16 Proposed Allocation of Fiscal 2002 Net Operating Income of $1.9 billion
(millions of dollars)
Note: Proposal to the Board of Governors.
a. Pension Reserve is used exclusively for the income derived from the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan and the accounting expense associated with it, required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. These funds are not allocable.
WORLD BANK COFINANCING
The Bank’s cofinancing partners include regional development banks and public and private sector organizations. The Bank’s cofinancing figures reflect the combination of the Bank’s resources with those of other donors for projects in specific regions and sectors.
Cofinancing in fiscal 2002 amounted to $4.7 billion. Major partners included the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), the African Development Bank, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation.
The Latin America and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of cofinancing in fiscal
2002	($2.3 billion), followed by the Africa region ($1.3 billion) and the Middle East and North Africa region ($0.4 billion).
Examples of Co financing in Fiscal 2002
A total of 109 projects were cofinanced by the Bank and its partners in fiscal 2002. Examples of projects with significant cofinancing include:
■	The Ghana Road Sector Development Project, which leveraged $745 million from 13 donor agencies.
■	The Colombia Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan—which was cofinanced by the IADB for $400 million.
■	The Tunisia ECAL III Project, which was cofinanced by the African Development Bank for $194 million and the European Commission, through the EuropeAid Co-operation Office, for $72 million.
Figure 2.17 shows the ratio of total cofinancing to World Bank lending.
TRUST FUND HIGHLIGHTS
Trust funds, which are accounted for separately from the Bank’s own resources, are financial and administrative arrangements with external donors that lead to grant funding of high-priority development needs, including technical assistance and advisory services, debt relief, postconflict transition, and cofinancing. Trust funds help the Bank leverage its poverty reduction programs by funding key due diligence activities for development operations, promoting innovative approaches for projects, forging partnerships, and expanding the scope of development collaboration.
They enable the Bank to complement and strengthen investment activities by breaking new ground with research and accessing a broad international knowledge base.
In fiscal 2002 management and the Board conducted a review of the cost-effectiveness and risk implications of managing a large and complex trust fund portfolio. Major new programs were funded, a series of focused audits and reviews were conducted, and reform initiatives for streamlining the channels of assistance, prioritizing proposals, and enhancing the control environment are well under way. These initiatives are expected to help ensure that the trust fund program is well managed and closely aligned with the Bank’s overall strategy.
The trust fund program expanded in fiscal 2002. Trust fund assets rose from $4.38 billion to $5.34 billion (22 percent). The disbursements totaled $1.93 billion, an increase of $0.08 billion, or 5 percent. The contributions received from donors totaled $2.61 billion, a decrease of $0.11 billion, or 4 percent. The five largest donors were the United States ($640 million), Japan ($316 million), the Netherlands ($268 million), the World Bank Group ($222 million), and the United Kingdom ($187 million), accounting for 62 percent of all contributions. Disbursements on five major programs—HIPC ($758 million), GEF ($225 million), the Policy and Human Resource Development Fund ($85 million), the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research ($82 million), and the Ozone
Trust Fund ($50 million)—totaled $1.20 billion, or 62 percent of total disbursements.
Accounting Policy
The trust fund financial information provided in the preceding paragraph reflects contributions on an accrual basis for the HIPC Trust Fund and on a cash basis for all other trust funds. Disbursements for all trust funds, including the HIPC Trust Fund, are reported on a cash basis.
Major New Programs
Responding to the emerging challenges, the donor community agreed to establish several major new trust fund programs for Bank administration during fiscal 2002. These included the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria; the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund; the Nile River Basin Trust Fund; The Eastern Greater Great Lakes Trust Fund; the Knowledge for Change Trust Fund; the Trust Fund for Capacity Building for Poverty Reduction Strategies in Low-income Countries; and the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative.
Donor Consultations on Policy Reforms
The Bank initiated a series of consultations with the trust fund donors to review audit results, propose standardizing the terms of trust fund agreements, and discuss policy reforms for ensuring the alignment of priorities. The focus of the policy reforms is on Consultant Trust Funds and Single-Purpose Trust Funds supporting Bank lending development and analytical work.
Trust Fund Reforms
The Bank also initiated a series of internal reforms to improve the control environment and reporting. These reforms included organizational changes, such as the strengthening of the donor-relations function and the establishment of a separate compliance unit, as well as complementary system enhancements for the financial accounting and reporting on trust funds.
Another measure to enhance donor relations was the establishment of a Web-based donor center that provides access to trust fund information on a realtime basis. In addition, a trust fund aw'areness campaign, reaching about 1,000 staff and managers, was implemented, and a Trust Fund Learning and Accreditation Program is being developed to ensure that staff are trained in all aspects of trust fund management.
A FRAMEWORK FOR THE WORLD BANK'S ASSISTANCE
In fiscal 2002 the Bank moved to implement its Strategic Framework worldwide. In the past year the Bank has developed and communicated its strategy, approach, and priorities, establishing many of the procedures and tools needed to translate those broad directions into concrete actions at the country and global levels. The March 2002 Strategy Update Paper for fiscal 2003-05 focused on the evolution from strategy development to implementation and results. The corporate priorities can now be more accurately monitored because of the new system of identifying and coding bank lending activities.
Selectivity and Alignment
The ongoing process of managing priorities is done within the three-level framework for selectivity within countries, across countries, and at the regional and global level. Selectivity within countries combines a comprehensive analysis with a selective set of program activities based on the client’s priorities, the Bank’s comparative advantage, and the comparative advantage of its partners. Sector Strategy Papers (SSPs) are linked closely to the PRSPs and CASs. They can further evolve into outcome documents with a strengthened focus on results.
The key criteria guiding the Bank’s selectivity across countries are poverty and performance, focusing its lending on countries where the overall policy environ-
ment favors aid effectiveness and where the Bank’s presence will have a high impact. To address the needs of countries with weak institutions and poor policy environments where development assistance is urgently needed but likely to have little impact, the Bank is exploring ways to adapt its assistance instruments to countries’ specific needs. Corporate advocacy priorities help the Bank to incorporate the twin pillars of its development strategy into its country level work. Selectivity at the global level reflects the Bank’s global public goods priorities: communicable diseases, the environment, trade and integration, information and knowledge, and international financial architecture. The Bank’s Global Public Goods Incentive Fund, launched in 2001, helped to achieve a stronger link between global and country programs. Box 2.2 describes the Bank’s CDF.
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGIES
The World Bank prepares a CAS for each of its borrowing members in consultation with the government, civil society organizations such as private nonprofit organizations, and other development agencies. The purpose of the CAS is to set out a Bank Group program of lending and advisory services linked to a country’s development strategy. Where there is a PRSP, CDF, or other country-led process in place, it provides the general framework for the Bank’s CAS. Beginning in fiscal 2003, the Bank expects that all new CASs for IDA-borrowing countries will normally be based on a PRSP. To facilitate this alignment, the Bank has generally updated its strategy in a CAS progress report pending the PRSP completion.
In fiscal 2002 the Board discussed 34 CAS products, including the first regionally integrated assistance strategy for 15 countries in West Africa, and 5 transitional support strategies for postconflict countries such as Afghanistan, Burundi, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In fiscal 2002,18 CAS documents were prepared jointly with IFC, underscoring the importance of private sector investment in these countries’ economies.
Significant progress has been made on CAS disclosure. All fiscal 2002 CAS documents (except one, which is pending) have been or are in the process of being disclosed. (See www.worldbank.org/cas.) Also, in calendar 2002 disclosure was extended to include the Chairman’s Concluding Remarks to Board discussions for CAS documents that are disclosed. The Bank is also
The CDF is the approach the Bank has adopted for its work at the country level. It fosters more effective and sustained poverty reduction by working according to four key interrelated principles: a long-term holistic development agenda; broad-based country ownership, where countries identify priorities; a country-based partnership; and accountability for development results. The CDF enables each country to take charge of its development process in a manner that reflects a broad national consensus, beyond government alone. There is beginning to be a more inclusive role for civil society in such policy discussions, and there is good progress in engaging a wide range of external as well as internal partners in a country's strategy formulation.
This approach has been widely accepted by developing countries and major development partners— the U.N. system, the multilateral development banks (MDBs), the European Commission, and bilateral donors. These key partners are taking concrete steps to achieve better alignment of their assistance strategies with nationally owned country strategies.
The CDF principles form the basis for PRSPs. Nearly 50 low-income countries around the world are pursuing the CDF approach explicitly through the PRSP. Many middle-income countries have also embarked on the CDF approach. To support CDF implementation, staff at the Bank, as well as other external partners, recognize country priorities and form partnerships to maximize the impact of the development effort.
For the Bank's clients in the future, there are two particular challenges: to further improve participatory approaches that ensure better engagement of key constituencies, such as the poor, the sectoral ministries, the private sector, and parliaments; and to develop the national and institutional capacities to monitor and evaluatepolicy reforms and their impact in relation to country-specific targets, using the MDGs as a frame of reference. Harmonizing external partners' strategies, policies, and procedures, both at the institutional level and the country level, is an additional challenge for all partners (see wvvw.worldbank.org/cdf for more details on the latest CDF progress report).
piloting the disclosure of information on CASs that are under preparation.
In fiscal 2002 a draft CAS retrospective study found that their quality continues to improve, with noticeable progress in the treatment of poverty, gender, governance, private sector, and financial sector issues. Nevertheless, some areas need strengthening. Developing practical performance monitoring and evaluation frameworks remains a major challenge.
SUPPORT TO LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES
The PRSP approach offers a new opportunity for development strategy—and development assistance—to be grounded in a broad-based and country-owned process. PRSCs are designed to support this approach in countries with good policies and sound public institutions. PRSCs have been approved this year for Albania and Burkina Faso. Recent discussions with representatives from PRSP countries, development partners, and civil society organizations reinforced the importance of adapting PRSP processes to specific country circumstances, setting realistic priorities and targets in country-owned PRSPs, and supporting their
ices to enhance their debt/risk management flexibility and to improve their institutional capacity for designing and implementing economic and sector reforms. Following the recommendation of the 2001 middle-income country task force, the Bank now emphasizes the complementary role of advisory services and has improved its lending instruments to meet the dynamic needs of middle-income countries. For example, a deferred drawdown option for adjustment loans was approved by the Board, and the corresponding instrument became available to clients during the fiscal year. The Bank has also introduced new financial products, including variable-spread single currency loans, fixed-spread loans, and local currency loans, which provide more flexible options for both low- and middle-income clients.
SECTOR STRATEGY PAPERS
SSPs help organize the Bank’s work on global priorities such as disease eradication and the environment. They are a launching point for promoting public action at the global level, pulling together global programs and partnerships, and providing incentives for client countries to take action. More generally, SSPs help shape the Bank’s approach and activities in a given sector or thematic area in order to enhance the impact on growth and poverty reduction. SSPs also lay out strategic options for sector and thematic areas, identifying aspects of relatively weak country performance for priority attention. They are developed with broad stakeholder consultation, and their implementation is regularly monitored.
In fiscal 2002 the Bank reviewed four SSPs, covering the areas of environment, gender, information and communications, and private sector development. The titles of the SSPs include “Making Sustainable Commitments: An Environmental Strategy for the World Bank Group”; “Integrating Gender into the World Bank’s Work—A Strategy for Action”; “Sector Strategy Paper: Information and Communications Technologies”; and “Private Sector Development Strategies: Directions for the World Bank Group.”
PARTNERSHIPS FOR DEVELOPMENT
Partnerships, as a way of doing the Bank’s business, have grown dramatically over the past 10 years. The Bank has recognized the importance of tracking the number of partnerships, the amount of administra-
tive funds involved, and the flow of managed funds through partnerships. In recognition of the potential risks, the Bank established explicit criteria for partnerships in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2002 the Partnership Approval and Tracking System was put in place to provide centralized information on the Bank’s regional and global partnerships. The Bank’s partnership with the Development Gateway Foundation is described in box 2.3.
World Bank Institute: A Partnership for Knowledge and Learning
WBI, which supports the Bank’s learning and knowledge agenda, fosters a wide range of institutional partnerships, including 20 bilateral donors, over 100 training and content partners, more than 40 private sector and foundation partners, and 16 international, regional, and national institutions.
In the past year WBI has expanded its partnerships with the IMF and the U.N. Development Programme (UNDP). WBI worked with the IMF on PRSP learning events and on other programs at two regional institutes: the Joint Africa Institute (Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire) and the Joint Vienna Institute (Austria). WBI has worked closely with UNDP to develop capacity-building strategies and policies, and contributed substantially to the UNDP publication Capacity for Development—New Solutions to Old Problems, a major book launched at the Financing for Development Conference in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002.
The Global Development Learning Network (GDLN), a rapidly expanding network of distance-learning centers, uses videoconferencing and other technologies to share learning activities worldwide. Thirty-seven GDLN sites are now operating, and an additional 42 are under development. In China the distance-learning center hub in Beijing is linked with a regional center in Ningxia via a high-speed fiber network: the China Education and Research Network is creating a network of networks, reaching out to universities throughout China. WBI’s partnership with TEC de Monterrey in Mexico also provides access to more than 500 downlink points in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Some WBI partnerships focus on specific topics.
For example, the Clean Air Initiative, which advances innovative ways of improving air quality in cities around the world, involves a wide range of partners including city governments, automobile companies, and donors. A distance-learning course on clean air
BOX 2.3 THE DEVELOPMENT GATEWAY FOUNDATION
The Bank has played a major role in launching the Development Gateway Foundation, an independent, nonprofit organization that combines public and private support for a variety of efforts geared toward addressing the digital divide. The core mission of the Foundation is to reduce poverty and support sustainable development through the use of information and communication technologies (ICT).
In addition to the World Bank, Founding Members of the Foundation include the governments of Australia, China, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Mali (sponsored by the Netherlands), Pakistan, and Rwanda. Founding Members contribute at least $5 million (in cash or in kind) over a three-year period.
The Foundation is moving forward in four key areas: the Development Gateway portal, an interactive portal facilitating access to information and knowledge on development and poverty reduction; the Network of Research and Training Centers with hubs in the developing world, designed to exchange ideas and test information and technology applications that will benefit the poor; an ICT Development Forum for debate and knowledge sharing on key issues, and for promoting partnerships between civil society and the public and private sectors; and the Grants and Investments Program, designed to support innovative projects and programs that bridge the digital divide at the local, national, regional, and global levels.
The Foundation held its inaugural meetings in December 2001 and its second meeting in April 2002. (See www.dgfoundation.org.)
was delivered through the Inter-American Educational Television Network’s 500 affiliates in Latin America.
Several partnerships are aimed specifically at enhancing the capacity of regional learning organizations. The African Virtual University (AVU), headquartered in Nairobi, is one of these. In fiscal 2002 AVU strengthened the information technology capabilities at its 31 partner universities throughout Africa and is preparing for the launch of accredited
diploma and degree programs by the end of calendar year 2002. Box 2.4 provides a list of knowledge sharing and partnership Web sites.
United Nations
The Bank’s relationship with the United Nations has advanced as a fundamental business partnership this past year. The common ground, underpinned by a comprehensive development agenda and the MDGs, evolved during 2001-02 as a consequence of the International Conference on Financing for Development preparation process, complemented by the work to link economic, social, and environmental issues in the World Summit on Sustainable Development. These solid building blocks have encouraged creation of stronger platforms to support country efforts to create poverty reduction strategies, and to harmonize operational issues with the U.N. Development Group. In addition, the two institutions are revitalizing their joint work on conflict prevention and reconstruction, two areas in which the Bank, the United Nations, and other partners share a common challenge of helping countries that are faced with the special needs associated with conflict.
At the global level, innovative efforts to work together are embedded in such initiatives as joint work to address the challenges of communicable diseases (Global Fund to Combat AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis, and the World Health Organization’s Commission on Macroeconomics and Health), joint exploration of linkages between economic development and human rights, and joint efforts to accelerate Education for All action.
The Bank is involved in interagency groups including the Chief Executives Board of agency heads within which issues of coherence, coordination, and strategy have emerged as part of learning and working with the U.N. system as a whole.
Management and staff continue to participate in intergovernmental processes and with agency governing bodies to build engaged, proactive, and forward-looking partnerships across the United Nations.
Multilateral Development Banks
Collaboration with MDBs such as the African Development Bank (see www.AfDB.org), the Asian Development Bank (see www.ADB.org), the Inter-American Development Bank (see www.IADB.org), and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment (see www.EBRD.com) intensified significantly, particularly in the aftermath of September 11.
The presidents of the MDBs had regular consultations, leading to coordinated responses to the global economic downturn and specific country issues and issued a joint statement on October 5, 2001. Building on established operational cooperation, now supported by memoranda of understanding between the Bank and most of the regional development banks, and on work done to harmonize operational policies and procedures, the MDBs embarked on a major new initiative—a collaboration on results-based management, including development of outcome indicators in country operations.
A jointly hosted roundtable, “Measuring, Monitoring, and Managing for Results,” brought together developing- and industrial-country representatives, bilateral and multilateral institution representatives, and academics to discuss challenges in results-based approaches and next steps to be taken jointly. They issued a joint statement on March 19, 2002, in Monterrey. In joint reports, MDBs articulated their role on the provision of global public goods and analyzed global poverty and progress toward the MDGs, with a special focus on Africa. Work on harmonization of policies and procedures, involving MDBs and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC), progressed according to an agreed-on action plan endorsed by the Bank’s Development Committee.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
The partnership with OECD has deepened and broadened considerably in recent years, with the objective of maximizing complementary activities and synergies and minimizing duplication. Collaboration with the organization’s DAC has been an especially important focus of this partnership. DAC provides a forum for OECD members to achieve, as bilateral donors, greater coherence and convergence in their development programs. The DAC Guidelines on Poverty Reduction have been the basis for the remarkable degree of convergence and consensus among the bilateral donors for the CDF-PRSP approach, who have expressed an intention to align aid programs within the PRSP framework and to untie their aid to least-developed countries. Beyond low-income countries, the Bank collaborates with the OECD on a broad agenda including trade, environment, corporate governance, anticorruption, and the
digital divide. A partnership of the OECD, Bank, and IMF initiated the establishment of an International Tax Dialogue to facilitate discussions and experience sharing among government officials responsible for tax policy and administration, to the benefit of developing and industrial countries alike.
International Monetary Fund
Cooperation between the World Bank and IMF intensified in fiscal 2002. The two institutions made substantial progress in approving debt relief for heavily indebted poor countries under the HIPC Initiative.
The executive boards approved debt reduction packages for 16 countries and discussed the poverty reduction strategies of 29 countries. In the context of their cooperation, each organization is concentrating on its area of comparative advantage: the IMF is responsible for the dialogue with country authorities on macroeconomic and related structural issues, while the World Bank takes the lead on social and structural issues.
In August 2001 the Boards of the Bank and Fund agreed to strengthen Bank-Fund collaboration on country programs and conditionality. The strategy is intended to strengthen collaboration between the two
institutions throughout the country program cycle through early collaboration, clear delineation of responsibilities by designating the lead agency, and transparent reporting in Board documents of each institution’s views. Nonetheless, each institution remains ultimately accountable for its own lending decisions and for safeguarding its resources. Under the PRSP framework for low-income countries supported by the Fund’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, the Bank and Fund are expected to work closely together to support the implementation of a common country strategy while focusing their efforts on their respective areas of responsibility. For middle-income countries there will be a need for greater flexibility to accommodate variations in country circumstances, but benefits are expected from improved coordination and information sharing between the Bank and the Fund.
Chapter 3
Development Effectiveness
The second half of the 20th century was a period of unprecedented progress in living standards at the global level. Better technology, policies, and institutions not only spurred rapid growth in the advanced economies—they also made possible substantial improvements in the lives of poor people throughout much of the developing world. In this context, many countries have made great strides in development, but others are still mired in war, epidemic disease, or communal and political collapse.
In 2002 the World Bank published The Role and Effectiveness of Development Assistance: Lessons from World Bank Experience, which examined the development community’s experience over the past 50 years. This study, prepared as a contribution to the March
2002	Financing for Development Conference in Monterrey, found that where countries have developed rapidly, the most important factors have been the policies, institutions, and governance of the countries themselves. Development assistance cannot substitute for domestic commitment, but where aid has supported countries committed to development, it has contributed markedly to development progress.
This development progress can be summarized in some remarkable transformations. In the past four decades life expectancy in developing countries has increased by an unprecedented 20 years. In just the past three decades, adult illiteracy in the developing world has been cut almost in half, from 47 to 25 percent. And in the past two decades the number of people living in abject poverty (defined as living on less than $1 a day) has finally begun to fall, by perhaps 200 million people—after rising through most of the 19th and 20th centuries. (Figure 3.1 shows the proportion of people living on less than $1 and $2 a day, by region.)
Developing countries themselves are largely responsible for this progress. They have taken many difficult steps to improve policies and institutions—for example, by cutting their median inflation rate from
15 percent in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1997. They have worked to integrate more rapidly with the global economy and have often seen benefits from doing so. The two dozen developing countries that have integrated most rapidly since 1980—which together have a population of about 3 billion people—have seen their annual growth rate of per capita gross domestic product (GDP) increase from less than 3 percent in the 1970s to 5 percent in the 1990s.
External development assistance has contributed to this progress, and indeed has become more effective over time in lifting people out of poverty. In many countries international aid and advice have helped create the conditions for social development and a flourishing private sector. As evidence has mounted that aid is most effective in countries with reasonably good policies, institutions, and governance, the international community has improved its allocation of aid, and the estimated effectiveness of aid in poverty reduction has risen sharply.
But not all developing countries have enjoyed such progress. For example, Africa as a region saw no increase in its overall per capita income between 1965 and 1999, despite significant improvements in certain social indicators. And in Africa and elsewhere, too many countries have suffered deteriorations in economic and social conditions over long periods. The challenges are not just economic and technical but also political, social, institutional, and financial. Even in numerous countries that have worked hard to reform policies (for example, by achieving macroeconomic stability and increasing openness and competition), an unfinished agenda in governance and institutional reform has hampered economic growth and limited poverty reduction. External factors such as Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) agricultural subsidies and trade barriers have impeded developing countries’ efforts to integrate and develop. Mistakes by the donor community—such
as politically motivated aid allocation during the Cold War—have also impeded development in some countries. Evaluation and research are essential, so that the Bank and the development community can learn from both the successes and failures of the past 50 years.
PROGRESS ON THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
As one indicator of development progress, the World Bank tracks country performance against the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Bank set out an analysis and an agenda for change in the World Development Report 2000/2001: Attacking Poverty. In March 2002 the Poverty Reduction Group reviewed progress in Poverty Reduction and the World Bank. The following observations are based on this work and the statistics published in the World Development Indicators 2002. It should be emphasized, however, that data are poor in many cases, a problem discussed at length in the fall 2001 edition of the World Bank Research Observer.
Goal 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger
The percentage of the world’s population living on less than $1 per day fell from 29 percent in 1990 to 23 percent in 1999. However, almost all of the reduction in the number of people living in extreme poverty was in East Asia and Pacific, where China has made rapid progress. In Europe and Central Asia the number and proportion living in extreme poverty have increased. Elsewhere the poverty ratio has decreased, but the absolute number of people in dire poverty increased. The result has been little change in the number of poor people in the world—about 1.2 billion. And the number of people living on less than $2 per day, a more realistic poverty line in many countries, increased from 2.7 billion to 2.8 billion from 1990 to 1999.
The World Bank’s Global Economic Prospects 2002 estimates that the proportion of the world’s population in extreme poverty could be halved by the MDG target date of 2015 if the growth rate of GDP per capita in developing countries averages 3.6 percent a year for the next 15 years. This growth rate is twice the actual rate during the 1990s. In Africa, where growth is projected to be less than half the global average, the number of people living in poverty will increase.
Halving the proportion of undernourished and malnourished people by 2015 will require concerted action by the affected countries and the international community. Many countries have made dramatic progress in reducing the proportion of underweight children—one measure of malnutrition—during the past three decades, but progress has slowed. In 2002 there are an estimated 150 million children under age five in developing countries who are malnourished.
At current rates of improvement there will still be 140 million underweight children in 2020.
Goal 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education
The Education for All Conference, held in Jomtien, Thailand, in 1990, pledged to achieve universal primary education by 2000. But in 1999 there were still 120 million primary-school-age children not in school, three-quarters of whom live in South Asia or Africa. The MDGs set an ambitious target, for which there is a strong commitment, of ensuring that all children can enroll in and complete a full course of primary schooling by 2015. In many places schools fail to achieve either objective. There can be large gaps between reported enrollment, attendance, and completion rates.
Approximately 80 developing countries have built a sufficient number of schools to place all of their primary-school-age children, but only about 27 retain most of their students through to completion. Since 1990, 17 developing countries have seen completion rates stagnate or decline.
Goal 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women
In most low-income countries girls are less likely to attend school than boys. Reflecting this difference, female youth literacy rates are lower than male youth literacy rates in all regions except Latin America and the Caribbean. The MDGs seek to eliminate the gender gap in primary and secondary education by 2005, and at all levels of education by 2015. Although the gender gap
increased. At the end of the 20th century only 37 developing countries were making fast enough progress to reduce under-five child mortality to one-third of its 1990 level by 2015. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that more than two-thirds of these deaths are caused by a combination of malnutrition and diseases that are readily preventable in high-income countries. Vaccination is essential for reducing child mortality, but in some parts of the world vaccination coverage has declined. In 1999, 55 countries had not attained 80 percent measles vaccination of children under one year of age; another 48 reported no data.
Goal 5: Improve Maternal Health
The goal is to reduce the maternal mortality ratio by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015. Data on
narrowed in the 1990s, many countries in Africa and South Asia will miss the first target date.
Goal 4: Reduce Child Mortality
The goal is to reduce under-five child deaths by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015. Deaths of infants and children decreased rapidly from 15 million per year in 1980 to about 11 million in 1990. Unfortunately progress slowed almost everywhere in the 1990s, and in parts of Africa, infant and child mortality rates
maternal mortality are in many instances unavailable or unreliable. In 1995 WHO estimated that more than 0.5 million women died from complications of pregnancy and childbirth, more than half of them in Africa. In Rwanda, for example, the maternal mortality ratio was 2,300 per 100,000 births. In high-income countries it is typically less than 10. Many actions are needed, including a reduction in the number of closely spaced pregnancies, better nutrition and care during pregnancy, and better availability of skilled birth attendants and emergency facilities.
Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Other Diseases
The Millennium Declaration resolved to halt the spread of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), malaria, and other major diseases, and begin to reverse their
incidence, by 2015. HIV/AIDS is having a devastating impact in developing countries, especially in Africa. Major breakthroughs in prevention are needed in the next few years if there is to be any hope of stabilizing, let alone reversing, the epidemic by 2015. Approximately 40 million people are infected with HIV/AIDS, and so far, about 20 million people have died from the disease. Malaria is endemic in more than 100 countries and affects approximately 300 million people each year. Tuberculosis is the main cause of death from a single infectious agent among adults in developing countries. Over the past decade its incidence has grown rapidly in several regions. Based on present trends there will be about 10 million new cases in 2005. The directly
and well-being of poor people. It can also reduce the risk of natural disasters from storms and floods. Access to clean water is important for controlling diarrheal diseases, and better drainage reduces malaria; both are major causes of child mortality. The World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in August 2002 is expected to produce implementation frameworks anchored in the MDGs, reflecting time-bound commitments from governments, the private sector, and civil society. Building on the accomplishments of the Monterrey conference on Financing for Development, the WSSD is focused on applications in key areas relevant to the accomplishment of the MDGs— agricultural growth, sustainable energy, health and the environment, and sustainable management of natural resources. The World Development Report 2003: Sustainable Development in a Dynamic World addresses these issues.
observed treatment, short course (DOTS) protocol has proven effective, but in 1999 less than half the population in the 23 countries most affected had access to it.
Goal 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability
The MDGs call on the world to reverse the loss of environmental resources, halve the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water, and achieve a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slumdwellers. Sustainable environmental policies are important because the environment provides goods and resources needed for human development. Better natural resource management can increase the income
Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development
Figure 3.9 Aid to Low- and Middle-income Economies
(billions of dollars)
Note: In 1999 dollars. Includes both official development assistance and official aid. Amounts not specifically allocated to countries are distributed proportionately to low- and middle-income totals.
Source: World Bank. 2002. World Development Indicators 2002. Washington, D.C.
Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development
This goal is about the means to achieve the first seven MDGs and calls on high-income countries to join with developing countries to ensure fair and open trading and financial systems, better market access for the least developed countries, improved debt sustainability, and increased development assistance. It is clear that business-as-usual will likely fail to achieve the MDGs by 2015. The World Bank has called for rich countries to provide increased aid, to open their markets, and to cut their domestic agricultural subsidies. At the same time, the Bank has committed its support for improvements in weak policy, institutional, and governance
regimes in developing countries. This is the essence of the Monterrey consensus: developing countries take responsibility for their own development programs and set in place the policies that will put them on track to achieve the MDGs, and bilateral and multilateral agencies will work together to support them and create a global environment conducive to poverty reduction and growth.
ASSESSING DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS
World Bank Impact
When assessing the effectiveness of the Bank’s work, it is important to recognize that one of the most important roles of the World Bank is to be an agent of change, through analysis and advice, as well as lending. In many countries the resource flows from the World Bank—and even official development assistance (ODA) flows more broadly—are not large enough for the money alone to make a major difference relative to the scale of the challenge. ODA totaled about $54 billion in 2000. This was only one-third as much as the private foreign direct investment flowing to developing countries, which in turn made up only about one-tenth of those countries’ total investment of nearly $1.5 trillion. Similarly, the Bank usually lends about $1 billion per year in direct assistance to the education sector (plus additional assistance through programmatic lending with education-related conditions), compared with annual public education spending in the developing world of more than $250 billion. Therefore when the international financial institutions and other donors have had major effects on development, it is because their assistance has gone beyond mere resource transfer and has helped countries to make fundamental changes—for example, through building institutions or through demonstration projects that have been replicated widely.
These fundamental and wide-ranging changes are typically more difficult to trace to particular donor actions or projects than are traditional project outcomes, especially when governments are the prime movers behind reform. Nevertheless, the need to continue to improve results means that good evaluation and management for results are essential. The World Bank recently launched an initiative to enhance the results orientation of its activities. Working with the other multilateral development banks (African Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and Inter-
American Development Bank) and in cooperation with the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD, the Bank cohosted an international Roundtable on Better Measuring, Monitoring, and Managing for Development Results on June 5-6, 2002. The Roundtable explored the strategic context for results-based development, the challenges of day-to-day management for development results, and the role of independent evaluation in institutional accountability and learning. It established a platform for follow-up by both the Bank and partner agencies.
The Bank has engaged partners more broadly in its work on knowledge development, including experts drawn from academic and research institutions, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations (see Drive to Partnership: Aid Coordination and the World Rank, April 2001). The Bank holds workshops, conducts external reviews, and uses other mechanisms to draw upon the knowledge and experience of partners and staff to help it design its strategies and activities.
Frank and open disclosure and dissemination of the Bank’s papers contributes substantially to the intellectual resources of the development community. Recent reviews by the Evaluation Cooperation Group, comprising the heads of the evaluation offices of the major multilateral development banks, concluded that the World Bank is generally their exemplar of best practices in evaluation.
Analysis and advice is a core business of the World Bank. This shows itself in the strong analytical capabilities of mainstream operational divisions. The country economists and other professional staff, for example, play a vital analytic role, as do the specialists within the Bank thematic networks. There is an extensive research program, leading to publications such as the World Development Report and World Development Indicators. The Bank has also developed specialized units with responsibility for evaluation of effectiveness and risk control, including the following:
■	The Bank has an Operations Evaluation Department (OED) that is independent of management, reporting directly to the Board of Executive Directors. OED carries out four main types of evaluations: sector and thematic reviews, country assistance evaluations (CAEs), project reviews, and process reviews. Each year evidence from all these evaluations is marshaled to produce a summary report, the Annual Review of Develop-
ment Effectiveness (ARDE). OED reports to the Board on the status of all evaluation activities across the Bank Group through the Annual Report on Operations Evaluation, and tracks management’s responses to major evaluation recommendations. It also supports evaluation capacity development in client countries.
I The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG) monitors the quality of the Bank’s activities during implementation to facilitate better management. It examines project quality for both loans (shortly after project approval by the Board) and advisory services (after delivery to country clients). It also monitors the quality of supervision of projects and reports to the Board on the overall health of the portfolio of ongoing projects through the “Annual Report on Portfolio Performance.” QAG’s work is in addition to that of the quality assurance teams maintained by the operational vice presidencies. In 2002 QAG has two experimental assessments under way: a study to look at the relevance and coherence of entire programs of advisory and learning activities in a country, and a pilot study to examine the effectiveness of the work of the Bank’s Sector Boards. The experience of these pilots will be used for a possible mainstreaming in fiscal 2003.
■	The Internal Auditing Department assists Bank management in establishing and maintaining sound risk management and internal controls. It achieves this through the delivery of an integrated audit service that provides an objective assurance to management as to the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank’s risk management and internal controls and any need for improvement, and advice on the identification, control, and management of risk, especially as it concerns issues related to the design, implementation, and operation of internal control systems. The Department carries out an annual business risk analysis and prepares the detailed annual work program, which is part of a three-year plan that covers high-risk areas. The three-year plan is revised and approved by the Bank’s president and endorsed by the Audit Committee each year. The Department performs its work in accordance with the Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
■	In fiscal 2001 the Bank established a Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit in its
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Vice Presidency to ensure the consistent implementation of safeguard policies, such as the policy on indigenous people or the policy on involuntary resettlement, and to give advice on safeguard issues in projects. Safeguard coordinators with dedicated funding have been appointed in each region. In 2002 the safeguard policies are being updated.
■	In November 2000 the Corporate Committee on Fraud and Corruption Policy was created to ensure that the Bank Group develops anticorruption policies and strategies that contribute effectively to its poverty reduction goals. The Bank’s corruption and fraud investigation unit is now known as the Department of Institutional Integrity (INT). INT investigates any allegations of fraud and corruption within the Bank Group or in connection with Bank-financed contracts, and any allegations of unethical behavior by Bank staff. In addition, the Ethics Office reports directly to the Bank's President and is responsible for outreach and communications on ethics matters.
Self-Evaluation
The Bank relies on self-evaluation validated by independent evaluation. Task managers must produce an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for each operation. These reports are the Bank’s main selfevaluation and learning tool. The Bank also conducts Country Portfolio Performance Reviews. The regional management teams use these to engage borrowers in discussions about the performance of the whole portfolio of Bank operations in a country. These discussions address both the accountability issues that affect the performance of individual operations and those that are systemic in nature. The performance of the Bank’s entire portfolio is assessed in the “Annual Review of Portfolio Performance.”
The Bank has significantly increased self-evaluations of its products and services in recent years. The Operations Policy and Country Services Vice Presidency, working jointly with other network vice presidencies, periodically assesses select client services and products, and assists the regions in implementing recommendations for improvement. The Strategy and Resource Management (SRM) Vice Presidency assesses the effectiveness of resource use. Its “Assessment of the Strategic Compact,” completed in fiscal 2001, evaluated the achievements under the Compact and identified weak-
nesses that required continuing action. Every year the SRM Vice Presidency produces a strategy update that reviews progress against the Bank’s objectives, priorities, and commitments.
Independent Evaluation
At the project level, each ICR is reviewed by OED.
In addition, OED conducts field assessments for one-quarter of completed projects each year, and a small number of impact evaluations for projects completed 5 to 10 years earlier. This work also provides the building blocks of project knowledge and performance that contribute to country, sector, and thematic evaluations. OED presents to the Board an ARDE, which reviews the performance of completed projects and discusses development challenges faced by the Bank. The theme of the fiscal 2001 ARDE was the importance of selecting the right development instrument for a given country situation and development objective.
OED’s CAEs concentrate on the development effectiveness of the Bank’s entire program of assistance to each country. They provide opportunities to assess lending and advisory services in the context of the country assistance strategy (CAS). In fiscal 2002 nine CAEs were undertaken. A major finding from these studies is that the overall impact of the Bank’s work in a country is often greater than a simple aggregation of the results of individual projects.
OED sector and thematic evaluations address issues that cut across Bank operations, such as the effectiveness of dialogue between borrowers and the Bank on policies and on project selection, design, and implementation. Many of these studies compare experiences across countries.
OED conducts special studies to review the Bank’s performance and experience in an economic sector or thematic area over 5 to 10 years and reports on development effectiveness and on compliance with Bank policy. To maximize the impact of sector and thematic evaluations, these studies are, to the extent possible, scheduled prior to a revision of the related Sector Strategy Paper (SSP). Sector and thematic evaluations completed by OED in 2001 and 2002 included “ The Gender Dimension of Bank Assistance: An Evaluation of Results”; “Promoting Environmental Sustainability in Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank’s Performance”; and “Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experience.”
The thematic evaluation titled “The Gender Dimension of Bank Assistance: An Evaluation of Results,”
completed in fiscal 2002, examined Bank assistance in 12 countries. Key findings were that Bank assistance was satisfactory in the health and education sectors but weak in promoting the economic participation of women and in improving national institutional frameworks for gender equity. The study called for better integration of gender considerations into the Bank’s CASs and into the design of Bank-supported projects so that both men and women are able to access the benefits equitably, especially in countries with high gender disparities. These lessons were incorporated into the SSP, “Integrating Gender into the World Bank’s Work: A Strategy for Action.” Among other interventions, the strategy recommended the gradual rollout of country gender assessments in all active Bank client countries over the next few years, to underpin CASs and project work.
The study “Promoting Environmental Sustainability in Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank’s Performance” found that the Bank has made valuable contributions to environmental work. It has played a leading role in addressing global issues, helped many governments build environmental institutions and programs, mitigated the negative effects of its development interventions, produced high-quality policy analysis and economic and sector work (ESW), and promoted awareness of the linkages between the environment and development. The evaluation, however, found that environmental sustainability has not featured adequately in either the Bank’s core objectives or in its country and sector strategies. The linkages between macroeconomic policy, poverty alleviation, and environmental sustainability have not been made sufficiently explicit. In response to the recommendations of this OED sector review, the Bank Group’s new environment SSP, “Making Sustainable Commitments,” outlines a comprehensive institutional effort to mainstream environmental considerations in CASs.
The second thematic evaluation was “Social Funds:
A Review of World Bank Experience.” Social funds projects create autonomous implementing agencies to finance small projects based on proposals submitted by local groups. Most social funds are set up temporarily to channel resources to needy communities during a crisis. However, virtually all Bank-supported social funds are still in operation, have been supported by successive Bank loans and grants from other donors, and have assumed longer-term objectives. The evaluation found that the funds have responded effectively in emergencies. They have mobilized nongovern-
mental resources and often have delivered small-scale projects in poor communities well (although project performance has varied considerably). The review also found that projects have been less successful in achieving lasting improvements or in facilitating institutional development. It suggests better integrating social funds into poverty reduction strategies, paying more attention to long-term implications, and having clearer criteria for supporting such funds. The findings of this review are being incorporated into future project designs and are among the inputs to the social development SSP, forthcoming in fiscal 2004.
OED is carrying out an evaluation of global programs and policies, which address critical development problems that affect many countries (such as environmental degradation, the spread of communicable diseases, and the digital divide). To this end, OED and Bank partners convened an international conference on evaluation of global public policies and programs in July 2000. A groundbreaking evaluation study of global public policy was initiated at that conference and is currently under way.
OPERATIONS QUALITY
In fiscal 2002 the fourth “Quality-at-Entry Assessment” by the World Bank’s QAG rated 94 percent of operations as satisfactory or better. This is 12 percentage points higher than in the first annual assessment.
Six of eight quality dimensions improved compared with the previous year. Only two dimensions—risk assessment and management, and implementation arrangements—have yet to reach 85 percent satisfactory. Nevertheless, some inconsistencies in the design of operations were noted, as well as some rigidities in applying fiduciary rules and a tendency to shy away from components that might trigger review under the Bank’s safeguard policies. Overall, there have been robust gains in the quality of Bank operations.
QAG also reports that both commitments-at-risk and projects-at-risk fell to about 12 percent of the portfolio in fiscal 2001, less than half the level five years ago. However the “Annual Review of Project Performance” warns that the current at-risk system may be understating the true level of risk and that more candid project supervision reports and ratings are needed. QAG completed “Supervision Quality of Risky Projects” in April 2002, which states that supervision was less than satisfactory for almost one-quarter of projects that had been rated at risk, significantly worse than for
the portfolio as a whole, and that routine ratings for projects at risk are not always realistic. The management is following up on the QAG recommendations to help improve the supervision of risky projects. QAG is also working with the Bank’s regions to refine the current portfolio indicators to improve realism of project ratings. (Figures 3.10 through 3.12 show the Bank’s current portfolio by region, theme, and sector.)
The fourth annual report on the “Quality of Economic and Sector Work Fiscal 2001 ” notes that overall quality was rated satisfactory, or better, for 91 percent of tasks, and that, while this excellent result partly reflects the continuing cleanup of operations in the pipeline, it also shows a solid general improvement in
the work of the Bank in partnership with its clients. However, gains have been uneven. For example, strategic relevance is very strong at 97 percent satisfactory, but the likely impact is weaker at 76 percent. Bank processes, at only 66 percent satisfactory, and peer review processes need strengthening. Coverage of poverty reduction issues in ESW has improved, with 82 percent rating satisfactory. Having had four years’ experience in assessing the quality of ESW, QAG has recently conducted a review of its methodologies and the costs and benefits of its assessments. The review has suggested moving toward assessment of country and thematic programs of analytical and advisory activities by fiscal 2004.
RESULTS
The outcomes of Bank projects that were completed in fiscal 2001 are among the best recorded in two decades. The long-term trend shows a decline in performance from 1977 to 1989 and a strong rebound since. The target of 75 percent of projects having satisfactory outcomes, originally set in the Bank’s Strategic Compact in 1995, has been met. In the first half of fiscal 2001,
82 percent of projects reaching completion had satisfactory outcomes, only slightly below the peak of 84 percent in 1999. Figure 3.13 shows satisfactory project outcomes from 1974 to 2001.
The theme of the 2001 ARDE by OED states that the right combination and sequencing of activities in a
given setting can make the difference between success and failure. Choice of instrument is complex because of the diversity of member countries and objectives and because of the wide range of Bank instruments and possible partners. Being wisely selective is key.
With regard to institutional development impact,
52 percent of projects completed during fiscal 2001 achieved a rating of substantial or better, an improvement of 15 percentage points over the fiscal 1996 to
1999	average. This result is the best on record, weighted either by the number of projects or by size of disbursements. Figure 3.14 identifies the trends in institutional development impact.
Seventy-one percent of projects completed during fiscal 2001 were rated as likely or highly likely to be resilient to future risks using a recently introduced four-point scale. However, the operating environment has become more risky and there is some question whether gains will be durable. Figure 3.15 identifies trends in sustainability of projects.
PROJECT AND LOAN PERFORMANCE
Project Performance, by Region
Project outcomes in all regions continue to improve. Projects in Africa show the largest improvement, up
19	percentage points since 1999 to 71 percent in fiscal
2001.	On the negative side, average outcomes ratings for projects in the Middle East and North Africa may deteriorate over the next few years, since QAG ratings of those projects currently under implementation show higher-than-normal risk. Figure 3.16 shows trends in project outcomes for Africa and other regions.
Project Performance, by Sector
Transportation, education, and public sector management are the best performing sectors for projects reaching completion in fiscal 2000-01, while the energy sector continues to lag. The high ratings for projects in the transportation sector are partially due to improved borrower financial resources, together with improved budget allocations for maintenance. Figure 3.17 shows trends in project outcomes by sector.
Performance of Adjustment and Investment Loans
Satisfactory outcomes of adjustment operations fell from 82 percent for fiscal 1996-99 exits to 79 percent for fiscal 2000-01 when weighted by number of
Note: Sectors in this table do not reflect the new coding system implemented in fiscal 2002. Data refer to independent evaluation assessments by OED of projects that have completed their loan disbursement phase and have exited the Bank's active lending portfolio. Results for fiscal 2001, based on all currently available independent assessments, as reported in the Annual Report for Development Effectiveness 2001.
projects, and from 87 percent to 70 percent when weighted by disbursements. Performance weighted by disbursements was volatile. One should note that the outcome data, weighted by disbursements, can be strongly influenced in a particular year by a single very
large loan coming to completion. For example, the outcome of a $1 billion operation can make a difference of up to 4 percentage points in the outcome for the whole Bank in that year. In fiscal 2001 the unsatisfactory performance of two adjustment loans to Russia significantly dampened the Bank’s overall outcome rating. This volatility is likely to continue given the number of large adjustment loans in the active portfolio. As risk management in the Bank receives more attention, managers are considering additional quality assurance arrangements for such large projects. Figure 3.18 shows performance of adjustment lending overall.
After a static period of performance scores in the late 1990s, outcomes for investment projects have shown significant recent improvements. The percentage of investment projects with satisfactory outcomes rose from 69 percent in fiscal 1999 to 78 percent in fiscal 2001. Figure 3.19 shows performance of all investment lending.
BANK SELECTIVITY, BORROWER COMMITMENT, AND CAPACITY
Experience suggests that borrower capacity and commitment are critical for development effectiveness. Selectivity based on a country’s policy environment and capacity is therefore an important consideration in the Bank’s decisions on what type of support is most
appropriate. The Bank distinguishes between countries that require and can absorb high volumes of lending and those where a large lending program would be counterproductive; in this latter group of countries, capacity building and advisory services, along with well-targeted grants, are the primary intervention. Despite improvements over the past decade, there is still scope for improving performance through increased selectivity at all levels of Bank assistance: the individual instrument, the country assistance program, and the Bank’s global, sectoral, and thematic priorities. The 2001 ARDE review of selectivity has identified three themes common to the project, sector, and country levels of analysis.
■	Good diagnosis, provided by high-quality ESW, is critical in establishing realistic development objectives. CASs, sector strategies, and operational guidance all inform the matching of instruments with objectives in light of country and sector characteristics.
■	The choice of instrument should reflect not only the objectives of the individual operation but also past performance in the country and sector context. Appropriate sequencing and tapping of complementarities among instruments improve outcomes.
■	A weak policy and institutional environment compromises the effectiveness of both lending and nonlending interventions, and calls for a nuanced selection of instruments. The outcomes of projects are closely correlated with the Bank’s Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratings, as is the success rate of individual instruments. In weak country environments, signified by low CP1A ratings, simple project designs—or a series of simple interventions—provide better results than complex, multifaceted undertakings. Even if lending is constrained by poor performance, carefully selected nonlending activities can be useful, especially in keeping the Bank prepared for possible re-engagement.
MANAGEMENT IMPLICATIONS
In the continuing drive to enhance the impact of development assistance on poverty reduction and growth, the 2001 ARDE noted areas in which the Bank can improve by making the right choice of activity.
The ARDE states that the Bank’s best practice in regard to each instrument should be standardized to a greater extent than in the past. The ongoing update on adjustment lending, to be followed by a similar process for investment lending, will offer a good opportunity to do this.
The Bank is devoting renewed attention to achieving better results in countries with poor policy and institutional environments, with a current focus on nonlending support. The 2001 ARDE presents evaluation findings that are germane to this difficult task. Recognizing the significant performance differential across instruments is an important first step. In addition, simple projects are best when country capacity is limited. Nonfinancial activities and pilot projects may be useful in poorly performing countries even when clients are not actively borrowing.
Implementation of sector strategies within countries requires clarity about the country’s development objectives as well as a good understanding of the prevailing conditions. Adjustment lending, supported as necessary by capacity-building assistance, is more effective when national ownership and consensus on sector reforms are strong, and when monitoring and evaluation arrangements are in place. In sectors where these prerequisites are lacking, programmatic investment lending may be preferable, supported by Learning and Innovation Loans, and targeted to capacity building.
On the other hand, implementation of the Bank’s cross-cutting, thematic objectives depends less on the use of specific lending instruments than on genuine mainstreaming of these operational emphases across all instruments, on the strategic application of safeguards, and on partnerships.
In its Strategic Forum 2002, senior managers from the Bank Group focused on six areas that are key. The Bank will therefore address them in the coming years. They include a sharp focus on the MDGs, assisting clients to build good investment climates, finding ways to assist low-income countries under stress, improving knowledge services as a complement to lending, aligning staff skills with Bank strategy, and improving the measurement of results.
The magnitude of the challenge as articulated in the MDGs is daunting and will continue to grow as developing countries’ populations grow by an estimated 2 billion over the next 30 years. A new international commitment and increased understanding of development effectiveness means that the scale of response can rise to meet the challenge. The response, as articulated in the Monterrey Consensus, involves reforms in developing countries themselves as well as in the international economy, particularly in the areas of trade and aid.
For external donor agencies such as the Bank, the overriding importance of promoting change requires an increased focus on partnerships, along with policy analysis and financial support.
In fiscal 2002 the World Bank intensified its efforts to help countries address social, structural, and economic aspects of poverty, in particular by ensuring that its support for poverty reduction reflected the priorities of developing countries themselves and by working to sharpen the impact of its own work on fighting poverty.
STRATEGY
Sustained economic growth remains critical for poverty reduction. Without it, poor people’s prospects for greater opportunity, empowerment, and security— essential elements of the strategy for poverty reduction described in the World Development Report 2000/2001—will be harder to realize. Thus growth is a necessary condition for attacking poverty—but it is not a sufficient one. Bank poverty reduction activities therefore extend beyond supporting growth in member countries to fostering poor countries’ leadership in poverty reduction strategy making, addressing gender inequalities, investing in poor people and empowering them, supporting key aspects of good governance and institutional reform, and helping countries participate effectively in the global trading system. Highlights of activities in these areas during fiscal 2002 included conducting (jointly with the International Monetary Fund [IMF]) a comprehensive review of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach, launching a strategy to integrate gender into the mainstream of Bank lending and nonlending work, and designing a framework for empowerment strategies. Meanwhile, responding to the challenge of the World Trade Organization (WTO) ministerial meeting in Doha, Qatar, the Bank stepped up its efforts to help developing countries benefit from the world trade system.
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPERS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
The momentum of the PRSP approach continued during the year. An additional nine countries completed interim PRSPs, and seven countries completed their first full PRSPs. A major initiative undertaken during the year was a comprehensive review of the first two years’ experience with the approach (see box 4.1).
Poverty is a call to action, a call to change the world so that many more may have enough to ear, adequate shelter, access to education and health, protection from violence, and a voice in what happens in their communities
Other Bank work related to PRSPs in fiscal 2002 included expansion of a learning agenda for clients (involving large regional learning events in Africa, Central Europe, and East Asia, complemented by individual incountry workshops) and for staff (including the first of a series of new courses on building and supporting PRSPs, drawing on findings from the PRSP Review); completion and publication of a two-volume PRSP Sourcebook that provided practitioners with materials covering macro, sectoral, and cross-cutting issues, along with core techniques for PRSP preparation; and thematic work with relevance for middle-income as well as PRSP countries, such as preparing a “User’s Guide to Poverty and Social Impact Analysis,” developing indicators and monitoring progress in poverty reduction, working on pro-poor growth, and preparing guidance to staff on incorporating poverty reduction into their work.
GENDER
Also during the year the Bank launched a new gender mainstreaming strategy, “Integrating Gender into the World Bank’s Work—A Strategy for Action,” designed to help foster country-led, country-specific efforts to
BOX 4.1 REVIEW OF THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER APPROACH
The review covered tne Tirst two years' experience with the PRSP approach. It was based on a broad consultative process involving PRSP countries and multilateral, bilateral, and nongovernmental partners, and it culminated in an international conference in January 2002. The review evaluated experience with a wide range of features of the approach; while recommending no major changes,-it included sets of gooa-practice suggestions for countries and development partners, including the Bank and Fund. Its broad findings on the impact of the approach to date included the following: the concept of country ownership had been and remained crucial to success; the approach had gained strong and widespread acceptance among low-income countries, had promoted enhanced national dialogue, ang was helping to put poverty at the center of countries' development efforts; PRSPs were also helping to promote better-informed decisionmaking and more effective use of public resources; ana development partners also widely endorsed the approach and were moving toward better aligning their assistance with country-owned PRSPs
The review also noted challenges and areas for improvement as the PkSP approach evolves. These include the importance of arriving at realistic growth projections, effectively prioritizing and sequencing key strategic initiatives, institutionalizing participatory processes with respect to strategy implementation and monitoring as well as strategy preparation, ensuring an appropriate role for national parliaments in the PRSP process, and ensuring clear and close linkages between PRSPs and countries' public expenditure programs and medium-term expenditure frameworks.
change gender patterns that adversely affect growth, poverty reduction, and human well-being. The strategy also calls on the Bank to ensure that gender assessments are conducted in all borrowing countries, based on inclusive consultations and analysis, in order to identify and help countries to address critical issues and priorities.
Bank-supported gender operations in fiscal 2002 include a women and justice project in Argentina,
a community empowerment project in East Timor, and a water and sanitation project in Ghana. The Bank’s Development Marketplace has promoted several innovative gender projects, such as supporting an artisan enterprise institute in Peru, reducing female genital cutting in Africa, and helping poor women and girls in Egypt obtain identity cards and birth certificates to enable them to access microcredit and basic services.
The Bank is also active in promoting gender equality through nonlending activities, including work on gender and human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome and on emerging issues such as gender and the digital divide. A new initiative on gender and macroeconomic policy will identify effective actions for integrating gender into country-level analysis and policy dialogue.
EMPOWERMENT
Empowerment is a key focus of the Bank’s poverty reduction efforts. Empowerment and Poverty Reduction: A Sourcebook was produced in fiscal 2002 to improve the Bank’s understanding of empowerment and its implications for ongoing work. The report cites evidence linking empowerment to improved project performance and governance and to growth that is more propoor. It is based on extensive consultations within the Bank and with government officials, other donor representatives, and civil society.
Since institutional environments vary with location and context, there can be no single model for empowerment. The Sourcebook offers a framework for the design of empowerment strategies, recommending that they focus on four key elements: information, inclusion and participation, accountability, and local organizational capacity. These elements can be linked to five priority areas of the Bank’s work: access to basic services, improving national governance, improving local governance, pro-poor market development, and access to justice and legal aid. The Peru Programmatic Social Reform Loan, for example, includes many features that enable citizens to hold government accountable, including mesas de concertacion—roundtables for dialogue and collaboration that include participants from local communities, civil society, local and national government, and the donor community—that are charged with monitoring all public funds allocated to poverty reduction.
GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
The Bank has increasingly moved governance and public sector institutional reform to center stage in its assistance to client countries, recognizing that good governance and strong public institutions lie at the core of achieving development and poverty reduction. Fiscal 2002 has been a year of further deepening these efforts and of taking stock of what has been learned thus far.
Many ongoing initiatives moved to a second phase this year. First, the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Program—developed to coordinate and integrate PEFA efforts both within the Bank and across donors—was formalized. Second, a report, “Actions to Strengthen the Tracking of Poverty-Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs),” a follow-up to last year’s HIPC expenditure tracking study, was prepared by Bank and IMF staff. Finally, a joint proposal from the Bank, IMF, and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development for the establishment of an International Tax Dialogue was approved.
TRADE
While openness to trade can be an important spur to growth, trade liberalization alone is insufficient for generating widely shared income gains. The Bank’s trade-related activities seek to improve understanding of the conditions that lead from openness to growth and poverty reduction, and to help integrate development considerations into international collective actions on trade—and trade into development strategies (see box 4.2).
At the country level the Bank seeks to help developing countries respond to new market opportunities. The challenge is to integrate trade reforms into national development strategies that support growth and poverty reduction. The Bank also provides direct advice and capacity building, including for WTO accession negotiation. In June 2002 the Bank published Development, Trade, and the WTO: A Handbook.
The Bank has continued to play a leading role in conducting diagnostic trade integration studies '	through the Integrated Framework for Trade:	Related Technical Assistance to Least Developed
I	Countries (IF), a partnership with other multilateral
;	institutions and bilateral donors. Studies have been
I completed for three pilot countries—Cambodia, i	Madagascar, and Mauritania—and are being pre-
’	pared for another four—Lesotho, Malawi, Senegal,
;	and the Republic of Yemen. Work is being expand,	ed to select low-income countries not classified
i	as least developed. The studies identify key con-
1	straints to a country's integration into the multilat-
i	eral trading system and the global economy, and
j	the implications for policy reform and technical
■	assistance needs. The Bank and IF partners are
|	actively pursuing mobilization of trade-related
assistance to poor countries as a follow-up to the ’	Doha declaration.
At the global level, work has focused on strengthening the development aspects of the global trade agenda. For example, Global Economic Prospects 2002, released in November 2001, and the Policy Research Report Globalization, Growth and Poverty: Building an Inclusive World Economy have helped shape the global trade debate and the agenda set at the WTO ministerial meeting in Doha, Qatar. Trade work is based on a strengthened program of technical research, focused on a better understanding of how institutional and regulatory reforms affect trade and investment liberalization; provision of an analytical framework to help developing countries set priorities for reform and multilateral trade negotiations; analysis of how trade policy reforms and domestic institutions can together help to reduce poverty; and work to make the global trading system more transparent and more attuned to the needs of developing countries.
Investing in People
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) commit the international community to a vision of development that vigorously promotes human development as the key to sustaining social and economic progress in all countries. People living in poverty lack access to basic health care, education, and social safety nets. Each year more than 13 million people lose their lives to human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) and other communicable diseases such as tuberculosis (TB), leprosy, malaria, and acute respiratory infections. Other people have little income or savings, and many are vulnerable to crisis. The World Bank stands by its commitment to scale up efforts to help countries achieve universal primary education, combat communicable diseases, reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, and protect the vulnerable from crisis.
The World Bank remains the largest source of external financing for human development programs. New lending commitments for education; health, nutrition, and population (HNP); and social protection amounted to $4.26 billion in fiscal 2002. In addition to its lending activities, the Bank’s human development agenda included analytical work, active involvement in country poverty reduction strategies, and extensive outreach and collaboration with partners to build strong alliances to help developing countries achieve their Education for All (EFA) goal of getting every girl and boy into primary school by 2015 and having them complete a primary education. Another such alliance has been to intensify the fight against communicable diseases. Collaborative efforts were undertaken with governments, U.N. agencies, and other partners to create the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, TB, and Malaria, in recognition of the devastating impact of these diseases on education and health systems, and wider prospects for reducing poverty in many countries.
THE EDUCATION AGENDA: FOCUSING ON UNIVERSAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
The Bank vigorously strengthened its support for education in fiscal 2002, building on a convergence of favorable developments, including increased global commitment to the MDGs; growing adoption of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), which
Education: creating opportunities for life-long learning.
can help situate education within a country’s overall developmental activity; and increased resources released through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. A primary thrust of the Bank’s education work was to help countries achieve key EFA targets—set in 1990 and reaffirmed in 2000 as MDGs— adopt primary education completion rates as the yardstick of development success rather than the traditional means of measuring gross enrollments. This important shift is necessary to deliver the full development benefits of EFA. A second strategic thrust aims to help countries build the human capital needed to develop competitive knowledge economies. Long-standing issues of access, equity, and quality need urgent attention; 113 million children are out of school, two-thirds of them girls, and a billion adults are illiterate. Equally important are the 21st century challenges posed by HIV/AIDS, armed conflicts, knowledge gaps, and the digital divide (see box 4.3).
In fiscal 2002 the Bank proposed, in consultation with partners, an Action Plan to accelerate progress on EFA. The Plan was adopted by the Bank’s Development Committee in April 2002. It outlines measures to close the data, policy, capacity, and financing gaps for 88 countries not on track to achieve, by 2015, universal primary education. The Bank has subsequently invited 18 countries to join an EFA Fast Track and is working with another 5 to qualify them for the program. This is
BOX 4.3 HELPING EDUCATION SYSTEMS COPE WITH HIV/AIDS
Among the earliest to urge action against HIV/AIDS, the Bank is actively helping countries deal with the epidemic's impact on education.
The central message of Education and HIVIAIDS A Window of Hope, published by the Bank in fiscal 2002, is that educating children and youth merits the highest priority in an HIV/AIDS-afflicted world. Education is both a proven means of HIV prevention and a sector whose very existence is threatened by the epidemic. AIDS is eroding the supply and quality of education, weakening demand and access, drying up human capital, and increasing sector costs.
The paper calls for urgent and innovative action to protect schoolchildren ages 5 to 14—the group least infected, and young people who are sexually active—often the highest risk group, accounting for some 60 percent of all new HIV infections. It urges countries to:
■	Establish education as an urgent national priority
■	Engage in systematic sector planning
■	Ensure close collaboration with other sectors
■	Develop policies that make schools safe for children
■	Strengthen delivery of prevention education
■	Address the needs of girls and orphan children.
an initiative designed to help developing countries meet the 2015 education goal. Many more countries are expected to benefit from this initiative in the months and years to come. A first-ever database on primary completion rates helped project an EFA external financing gap of about $2.5 billion to $5 billion. Achieving EFA will require sound macroeconomic and education sector policies that emphasize efficiency and quality, such as reasonable teachers’ salaries and school construction costs, as well as adequate domestic—and external—resources. It will also require addressing bottlenecks that may reside outside the formal education sector. In fiscal 2002 the Bank helped countries mobilize domestic resources for education through active support for the PRSP process.
Bank lending for education in fiscal 2002 was $1.4 billion. Africa accounted for most of the projects, which supported primary education, distance learning, and higher education. A key focus was on the quality ot education, as in Bangladesh’s Second Female Secondary School Assistance Project, which builds on impressive gains in access. Support to the Latin America and the Caribbean region ($560.4 million) will also help raise quality and expand basic education coverage to the poorest areas in Mexico, and provide “lifelong” learning for unemployed youth and poor people in Chile.
EXPANDING EFFORTS TOWARD A HEALTHY GLOBAL POPULATION
Health, Nutrition, and Population
In fiscal 2002 Bank lending to help countries improve HNP outcomes totaled $1.4 billion. The Bank conducted a review this year of its progress in achieving the objectives outlined in the 1997 HNP Sector Strategy. While noting some important accomplishments— for example, a sharper focus on health and poverty, and modest beginnings in financial protection against impoverishment from ill health—many challenges remain. Helping countries achieve the MDGs has now taken center stage, as has addressing inequities in access to and the quality of health services, and the growing burden on poor people of noncommunicable diseases. For example, an adaptable program loan for nutrition in Senegal was approved this year to help mothers
prevent, rather than treat, children’s malnutrition. In reproductive health, the prevention of sexually transmitted infections continued to figure prominently. Finally, emphasis on strengthening health systems as a cornerstone for improved HNP outcomes continued to grow.
Communicable Diseases
Significant support was directed last year toward combating HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, and other communicable diseases, amounting to $320 million. A second Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa was approved in fiscal 2002, earmarking another $500 million in IDA resources for projects that support the scaling up of national HIV/AIDS prevention and care programs. In fiscal 2002 the Bank appointed its first Global HIV/AIDS Advisor, who will be responsible for intensifying the Bank’s operational work in the field and for representing the Bank in the global movement of governments, communities, private companies, development agencies, and civil society groups determined to reverse the course of the epidemic.
More than 30 countries are benefiting from Bank financing for the adoption and expansion of the TB control strategy known as DOTS—directly observed treatment, short course. More specifically, the second TB Control Project in China builds on a previous operation that demonstrated the successful application of DOTS on a massive scale. This project is also innovative: it involves cofinancing from the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development to reduce the interest burden on the Chinese government. In addition, support for rolling back malaria through Bank operations includes some 45 active projects, and the Bank is helping to ensure malaria is a priority in its work through sectorwide approaches (SWAPs), PRSPs, the Comprehensive Development Framework, and HIPC.
The Bank plays a key role in well-established communicable disease partnerships—such as the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), Roll Back Malaria, and Stop TB—that have been essential in keeping the world focused on these challenges. Other communicable disease partnerships remain a priority for the Bank, including collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), U.N. agencies such as UNAIDS, bilateral donors, and the private sector, including foundations. Through the Development Grant Facility the Bank is steadfast in its support to the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), which has been instrumental in the development and testing
of AIDS vaccines in developing countries, and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, a key public-private partnership that works toward improved access to existing childhood vaccines and the development of new ones (see box 4.4).
PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE
Natural or man-made crises can devastate poor families, robbing them of security, income, and productivity. Social protection, such as risk reduction and mitigation, and coping measures are essential to protecting the vulnerable. Such measures seek to help individuals, households, and communities better manage risks, and to provide support to the critically poor. In fiscal 2002 these measures helped countries build viable old-age
Only with concerted effort can the world hope to win the fight against HIV/AIDS. While the unfinished agenda is significant, there is reason for hope:
■	More governments than ever before have confronted HIV/AIDS publicly over the past year, displaying leadership, committing unprecedented resources, and taking action.
■	Global support has grown with the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria; new resource commitments by bilateral, multilateral, private, and philanthropic organizations; and the U.N. General Assembly and Security Council resolutions on HIV/AIDS.
■	The landmark U.N. General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS in June 2001 renewed the global commitment to cooperation amid a heightened awareness that funding from all sources needs to increase substantially for the spread of HIV/AIDS to be halted by 2015.
■	Following negotiations with UNAIDS cosponsors— including the Bank—under the Accelerating Access Initiative, several manufacturers of HIV/AIDS drugs have reduced their prices by 90 percent.
■	The Bank is a founding member and supporter, through the Development Grant Facility, of IAVI. IAVI is promoting the development of HIV/AIDS vaccines for developing countries.
■	The Bank has worked with UNAIDS and the International Partnership against AIDS in Africa to support 16 African countries under the $1 billion MAP. Another 15 countries are preparing programs for funding. Similar support to Caribbean nations is benefiting from collaboration with UNAIDS, the Pan American Health Organization, the WHO, and other regional partners. The Bank has also worked closely with the IMF and UNAIDS to help countries integrate HIV/AIDS support into HIPC and PRSP programs.
■	The International AIDS Economic Network—a partnership of the Bank, UNAIDS, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and the European Union—provides data, tools, and analysis to thousands of researchers and practitioners worldwide for compassionate, cost-effective responses to the epidemic.
protection mechanisms, develop equitable and inclusive labor markets, eliminate child labor, and provide social safety nets and social funds to reach vulnerable groups. Lending for other social services and pensions was $1.44 billion. Lending has increased in Africa,
Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe and Central Asia but has fallen in South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa, and East Asia and Pacific. Identifying how to provide more effective risk protection to households outside the formal economy is an important part of our efforts.
The Bank implemented the social protection strategy that was adopted in September 2000. This included
undertaking social risk assessments in eight Latin American countries to determine the risks to which the poor are exposed, the instruments they have available, and the actions needed to reduce their vulnerability. Three specific vulnerable groups have been targeted: working children, orphans and other vulnerable children, and the disabled. Work to help these vulnerable groups is already progressing in all three areas in other regions, with pilot studies on child labor in Guatemala, Morocco, and the Republic of Yemen; a workshop on orphans, particularly those from Africa; and the establishment of the Norwegian Trust Fund for Disability and Development.
Promoting Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
During fiscal 2002 poverty reduction became, more than ever, associated with the prospects of peace and stability in the world. Development in a sustainable manner—through sustained growth, good governance, social inclusion, environmental responsibility, and creation of opportunities for the poor—represents the most effective path to ensuring long-term security.
On the sustainable development path, the Bank has focused over the past year on developing client-responsive sector strategies in environment, rural development, forests, water resources, and social development, while implementing the environment strategy and scaling up conflict prevention and postconflict reconstruction (www.worldbank.org/ sustainabledevelopment).
The Bank geared up for the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) held in Johannesburg, South Africa, August 26 to September 4, 2002.
Its flagship contribution to the Summit was the World Development Report 2003. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) provide a framework for collaboration on sustainable development and underpin the Bank’s agenda at the WSSD (see box 4.5).
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
In fiscal 2002 the Bank launched a new environment strategy aimed at improving the quality of life, the
BOX 4.5 WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The World Bank, as tljie largest lender for sustainable development, isifully committed to the goals of the WSSD, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, August 26 to September 4, 2002. During fiscal 2002 the World Bank supported the preparatory process of the Summit. Based on the common platform of achieving the MDGs, the WSSD was a unique opportunity to move'jthe sustainable development agenda closer to implementation, adding coherence to the gains coming out of the Financing for Development conference in Monterrey, Mexico, and the Doha, Qatar.i conference on Trade and Development.
Development is a long-term process that ultimately involves the transformation of whole societies Sustainable development means not only caring for today's world, but also trying to leave the planet a better place for our children and their children
quality of growth, and the quality of the global commons. It builds on the linkages between poverty and environment, stressing the areas of health, livelihoods, and vulnerability. The strategy is now being implemented, and it includes tools to help integrate environment into development decisions such as country environmental analyses, poverty-environment analyses, and strategic environmental assessment. An environmental mainstreaming fund supports regional activities applying this comprehensive approach (see www.worldbank.org/ environmentstrategy).
The Environment Network focuses particularly on the MDG of ensuring environmental sustainability.
The Bank is exploring how countries can generate the resources they need through partnerships with the private sector, government, donors, and local communities. Work is also under way in critical countries on indicators such as water supply, sanitation, forest management, and infant mortality rates.
As an implementing agency for the Global Environment Facility and the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol, the Bank has helped countries meet their obligations under the global conventions on biodiversity, land degradation, ozone depletion, persistent organic pollutants, and climate change. The Bank
supports developing market mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; the Prototype Carbon Fund is demonstrating how market-based carbon emissions transactions can be implemented. The Bank is also helping countries identify potential carbon markets and other financing opportunities for GHG offsets.
FOCUS ON AGRICULTURAL GROWTH
The Bank’s future direction for rural development and poverty reduction was developed during fiscal 2002. Agricultural growth was identified as a fundamental pathway out of poverty. The multidimensional nature of activities and work across all rural sectors is recognized as a key factor to achieving poverty reduction. The focus is on a more holistic, pro-poor, rural development approach, enhancing returns to labor and land, and more effective agricultural investments. The new emphasis addresses the entire rural space, including social, economic, and environmental aspects of rural development. It encourages broad-based stakeholder participation in project design and implementation, moving away from working only with the central government. A draft strategy that includes these issues will be presented for Board discussion in fiscal 2003.
As a result of the crisis in the commodities market in fiscal 2002 that affected many developing countries, the Bank was called upon by client countries to continue development of new approaches and tools to deal with commodity risk management. The International Task Force on Commodity Risk Management, with its secretariat housed at the Bank, is exploring the potential of market-based commodity price risk management—a type of price insurance that will serve to mitigate exposure of developing-country producers to price shocks and the negative effects of price volatility. In addition, the Bank is helping clients to increase competitiveness and build capacity to successfully engage in the WTO, and is advocating the reduction of Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agricultural subsidies.
The Bank also supports the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) (www.cgiar.org), a broad-based partnership comprising the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the U.N. Development Programme, 22 developing and 21 industrial countries,
private foundations, and regional organizations. A far-reaching reform program launched by the CGIAR in fiscal 2002 is increasing the relevance and impact of its research through innovative programs and new mechanisms to ensure that the quality of science meets the highest international standards. Research at the CGIAR-supported Centers—Future Harvest Centers— is helping launch a rice revolution in West Africa through the release of new rices for Africa, and a corn variety bred for high-quality protein is being planted on 1 million hectares in 20 countries. Per Pinstrup-Andersen, Director General of the International Food Policy Research Institute, a Future Harvest Center, won the 2001 World Food Prize for efforts to improve food policies, a first for an agricultural economist. In a signal of growing confidence in the system, the IFAD agreed to become a cosponsor of CGIAR.
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
A range of participatory approaches to public expenditure management has been developed to ensure greater accountability to citizens for public actions and outcomes, including participatory budgeting, budget review and analysis, expenditure tracking, and performance monitoring through the use of citizen report cards. With the advent of PRSPs, country clients and Bank staff seek to better understand the distributional impacts of policy reforms on the well-being of different stakeholders. In response, a “Guidance Manual” to help undertake poverty and social impact analysis of policy reforms was prepared during fiscal 2002 (see http://www.worldbank.org/poverty/).
Community-driven development, an approach that gives control of decisions and resources to community groups, is now an important priority in the Bank’s business.
Bank staff began work on a social development strategy in fiscal 2002 aimed at reviewing and defining the Bank’s social development agenda, and at developing a program of action to help projects and programs better achieve poverty reduction.
The events of September 11 put an increased focus on the Bank’s work in conflict prevention and reconstruction, while demands for assistance for conflict-affected countries in the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia region and Africa region have continued to be strong. In fiscal 2002 the Post-Conflict Fund approved
over $13 million, including funds to Afghanistan to support the reconstruction strategy, and to the Afghan Interim Administration.
SAFEGUARD POLICIES
Safeguard policies, incorporating environmental principles, are designed to protect the interests of third parties from adverse impacts of Bank-assisted projects. They have become a cornerstone of the Bank’s poverty reduction efforts. In fiscal 2002 the Bank continued to improve its safeguard systems with a number of new initiatives. In December 2001 the Involuntary Resettlement Policy was revised and includes safeguards to address and mitigate the impoverishment risks. Its annex describes the elements of a resettlement plan and a resettlement process framework. In addition to the Resettlement Policy, the Forest Policy, the Indigenous
People’s Policy, and the Physical Cultural Resources Policy have been revised after extensive public consultations and are expected to be presented to the Board of Directors in fiscal 2003 (see www.worldbank.org/ safeguards).
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
A Strategic Directions Paper “Science and Technology in Development” was produced; it reviews the main policy options for improving science and technology systems in developing countries, particularly through greater coordination of existing programs.
The Bank was also active in international scientific assessments, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Millennium Ecosystems Assessments.
Supporting Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Private initiative plays an important part in the quest for poverty reduction. While private capital flows to emerging markets remain vastly larger than official development assistance, there has been a downward trend in net long-term private flows to developing countries. This has been due in part to crises in emerging markets and to a general economic downturn.
The World Bank promotes the development of private initiative through its Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Network (PSI), w'hich supports the institution’s commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The core of the network’s activities is consistent with the Bank Group’s corporate strategy for achieving these goals. The activities rest on the twin pillars of building the investment climate and empowering poor people.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY-HARNESSING PRIVATE INITIATIVE
Much of this approach is captured in the World Bank Group’s private sector development strategy, designed to better harness private initiative for growth and poverty reduction. In February 2002 Executive Directors of the Bank Group gave their support to the strategy, following a year of dialogue and consultation during which comments and feedback were elicited from a broad range of constituencies. Poverty is reduced when investment climates are improved and the reach of markets can be extended to provide greater job and income opportunities for poor people.
The strategy acknowledges the centrality of infrastructure to poverty reduction, and encourages continued private sector participation while fostering stronger regulatory regimes. Nearly 3,000 regulators from 115 countries have attended formal regulatory training programs supported by PSI, the World Bank Institute, and external partners. These efforts are contributing to more effective regulation of infrastructure in client countries, with positive impacts on the flow of private investment to improve essential infrastructure services. The regulatory approaches being supported make an important contribution to the broader poverty and governance agenda. This also points to the critical role of the public sector in fostering an enabling climate for private sector development, and to its
New tools developed by the Bank, such as the private sector guarantees for IDA countries, are encouraging private investment
responsibility for ensuring access to affordable basic services such as health and education.
SOME KEY INSTRUMENTS
Consistent with the directions of the private sector development strategy, the Bank has been developing an array of new instruments and programs to support its objectives. Investment climate assessments are being carried out with the aim of having a catalytic impact on private flows and spurring greater private sector initiative to benefit the poorest. An assessment has already been completed for India and 15 more are currently under way.
Other important instruments being pursued include output-based aid (OBA) pilots. OBA contracts shift the responsibility for service delivery to private operators by linking the disbursement of aid to actual provision of the service. The Bank has contributed to the design of OBA pilots in most regions and sectors, including a water project in Cambodia, an electricity project in Mozambique, road projects in India, telecommunications projects in Nepal, and rural multisector projects in Bangladesh and Mauritania.
Internally, organizational innovations such as the establishment of a number of joint World Bank-IFC departments or Global Product Groups are helping to
leverage the impact of World Bank Group operations in sectors with heavy private sector involvement. These joint departments cover oil, gas, and mining; information and communications technology; small and medium enterprises; and private sector advisory services. An evaluation of the joint model will soon be carried out.
EMBEDDING NEW APPROACHES AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL
Considerable attention is being given to embedding these new approaches in the Bank’s country work through country assistance strategies (CASs) and Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). Private sector development and infrastructure issues have been well positioned in cross-sector activities across the Bank. PSI staff are integrated into multisector teams.
In Uganda, for example, a PRSC covers roads and water and sanitation along with health, education, and public governance, underscoring a new broad-based or multisector project approach. What this and many other initiatives like it show is the direct link between infrastructure initiatives and poverty reduction as called for in the MDGs.
A Business Primer Fund has also been set up to spur work on cross-sector issues. PSI has established partnerships with different country teams to enhance its support for the preparation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. Such efforts are currently under way with poverty reduction strategies for the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, and Nigeria. The network is also coordinating upstream interventions in key CASs in China, Colombia, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, and Thailand.
The Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme, a global technical program supported by the Bank, the U.N. Development Programme, and others, is helping to build consensus and provide policy advice on sustainable energy development to governments.
The Water and Sanitation Program, an international partnership to help poor people in developing countries gain access to safe drinking water and sanitation services, is focusing its efforts on policy reforms and institutional change in the water supply and sanitation sector. From a health perspective, its Global Initiative for Public-Private Partnerships in Hand Washing is catering to the huge unmet need for hand washing with soap in poor communities in developing countries.
Transportation remains central to many potential gains: with roads, people have access to markets, schools, health facilities, and a host of other services.
In March 2002 the Bank approved $315 million to support physical and management improvements of transportation networks in India. The Mizoram State Roads Project and the Kerala State Transport Project will expand and rehabilitate transportation systems and help strengthen the capacity of the respective state road agencies to manage and deliver quality road services. The government of India strongly supports the provision of basic infrastructure as a priority to help
MAKING AN IMPACT THROUGH INFRASTRUCTURE
The MDGs do not specifically mention key areas of infrastructure such as electricity, transportation, and telecommunications, but infrastructure remains central to achieving the goals. The provision of infrastructure is also central to building the climate for investment and to investing in poor people and empowering them to participate in development.
The Bank is intensifying efforts in a wide range of infrastructure initiatives.
boost the long-term economic growth needed to reduce poverty and create opportunities and access for communities. And in Brazil a $209 million World Bank loan for the financing of the Sao Paulo Metro 4 Line Project, approved in January 2002, is supporting Sao Paulo’s urban poor.
In fiscal 2002 the Bank adopted an information and communications technology strategy, which guides the formation of its telecommunications policy. In December 2001 the Bank approved a $22.6 million credit to the government of Nepal to help finance the Telecommunications Sector Reform Project. The project specifically targets low-income, rural, and other disadvantaged people, and will provide them with telecommunications and information services, often for the first time. This project strongly underscores the use of OBA outlined above.
World Bank guarantees are also playing a significant role in catalyzing private capital flows to several large infrastructure projects in developing countries. Supported by a partial risk guarantee, the Haripur Power Project in Bangladesh was commissioned in December 2001, adding 360 megawatts to the country’s generating capacity. The total cost of the project was $176.5 million. By mitigating government performance risk, the partial risk guarantee allowed Bangladesh to catalyze more than $115.6 million of private financing in this transaction, with a 14-year tenure.
Finally, the Bank continues to place much attention on the effectiveness of development assistance.
Its activities to provide people with access to financial
services are a case in point. The Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), a consortium of 29 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies supporting microfinance in developing countries, is currently facilitating an initiative on aid effectiveness using microfinance as a test case. Over the next year CGAP will coordinate
donor-led peer reviews of the institutional policies, practices, and processes of 17 multilateral and bilateral donor agencies to improve microfinance operations and donor communications. The strategic reviews are expected to yield lessons on improving the effectiveness of all areas of development assistance.
Building Strong Financial Systems
A robust financial system is a precondition for a sound investment climate, growth, and the reduction of poverty. The loss of over $1 trillion in developing countries as a result of banking crises in the 1980s and 1990s is equal to the total flow of official development assistance from 1950 to today. This underscores the priority of helping countries build stable financial systems fortified by compliance with international standards and diverse financial institutions and instruments.
As the global economic downturn was accelerated by the events of September 11 and their aftermath, capital flows to emerging markets fell sharply and only recovered following U.S.-led growth in early 2002. Slow growth worldwide and the financial crisis in Argentina have provided the impetus for many countries to take new steps toward improving their investment climates, restructuring the enterprise and banking sectors, and strengthening financial supervisory agencies.
BANK PRIORITIES
Where financial crisis has occurred in client countries, the Bank has taken action: in response to Turkey’s twin banking and currency crises, the Bank has continued to assist the government in restructuring its banking system by strengthening the bank resolution framework; improving the legal framework for creditor rights, bankruptcy, and corporate debt workouts; and implementing a comprehensive restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks.
The most important contribution of the Bank is on the developmental side of the financial sector: building the foundations to ensure not only a more stable system but also one that allocates credit to its best uses, thereby maximizing growth and poverty alleviation. The Bank’s programs also strive to broaden access to financial services, for example, by small and medium enterprises. Through the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) diagnose vulnerabilities and identify developmental priorities in financial sectors and assess the observance of several international supervisory and regulatory standards and codes. Twenty-one country assessments were undertaken in
fiscal 2002, bringing the total to 55 assessments since the program’s inception in May 1999. An additional 24 countries are expected to participate in the program in fiscal 2003. These assessments provide a wealth of information, as well as recommendations for follow-up, to national authorities. As a result, countries increasingly seek technical assistance for their financial sectors. (See www.worldbank.org/finance/html/ fsap.html.)
The demand for preparation and follow-up assistance related to the FSAP and the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs) goes beyond the resources and the expertise that any single institution can provide. Recognizing this, the Bank, in partnership with the IMF, Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, has launched the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative. This new effort, to which $51 million has been committed over four years, puts in place a systematic mechanism for responding to countries’ technical assistance, capacity-building, and information needs, and provides a framework for the international community to coordinate more effectively.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, the international community has placed increased importance on the fight against money laundering and abuse of the financial system to support terrorism. Threats to financial system integrity pose developmental risks for client countries, since growth can occur only if financial systems serve the legitimate needs of the many rather than the corrupt needs of the few.
The Bank, working closely with the IMF, has significantly stepped up its efforts to help member countries identify weaknesses in their legal and institutional capacity in this area and to address the problems through technical assistance. The Bank has provided assistance to over 20 countries in reviewing antimoney-laundering and counterterrorism laws and regulations, and has helped establish the institutional capacity to carry out effective programs in these areas. The Bank is also leading the development of an international technical assistance coordination mechanism that will contribute to more effective identification and delivery of technical assistance, working with the IMF, Financial Action Task Force, the United Nations, the Egmont Group (an informal organization of financial intelligence units—the cornerstone of national antimoney-laundering programs), regional development banks, and other partners.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT AND EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
Financial systems that allocate credit to the private sector efficiently can increase access of the poor to financial services. Countries that allocate their resources well will prosper. In Jordan the Bank helped establish a secondary mortgage facility, resulting in impressive growth and increases in the affordability of residential mortgages. A Bank credit to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has helped the government begin liquidation of 60 percent of the banking system, including four of the largest banks. This restructuring will improve the environment under which banks operate, thereby boosting financial intermediation, encouraging domestic savings, and generating the necessary working capital and investment finance needed for private sector growth and job creation. In Colombia the Bank worked to establish an effective corporate debt restructuring system, enabling the resolution of banking asset problems and laying the groundwork for an improved investment climate (see box 4.6).
The reform of payment systems (the mechanisms . for moving funds, payments, and money among financial institutions in countries) throughout Latin America and the Caribbean has been taking place over the last two years, driven by the Bank-led . „ Western Hemisphere Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Initiative (WHI). WHI was launched in 1999 by the Bank in partnership with the Centre for Latin American Monetary Studies following a request from the Western Hemisphere finance ministers. Its objective is to describe arid	•
assess the payment systems of the Western Hemi-	;
sphere for the purpose of improving their safety, efficiency, and integrity.	,
The Initiative has undertaken a number of ac- ■ tivities to strengthen the payments arrangements in Latin America and the Caribbean, including the development of descriptive reports ("yellow	.
books") and a methodology for assessing payments . systems and securities clearance and settlement systems at the same time; the delivery of recommendations to country authorities; and the creation of	. -
a Web-based resource for all governments in the region (see www.ipho-whpi.org). The direct result . of this work has been improved payments arrangements in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru, and major reform programs in The Bahamas, Barbados, El Salvador, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago.	,
To help countries overcome the low intermediation trap—where the formal financial system services only large firms, leaving SMEs with little access to financial services—the Bank is tapping the potential of information technology. For example, the World Bank and the Indian post office are collaborating to investigate ways in which information technology can be used to help overcome poverty in remote, rural areas of India by establishing public-private partnerships that could use the vast infrastructure of the post office as a conduit for the delivery of basic financial products and services: delivering microfinance services at lower costs, providing SMEs with access to finance and markets, and helping the poor manage risk through offering pension and insurance products. This platform is also expected to be extended to nonfinancial activities such
as the provision of pricing and other information, and e-government—the use of information and communications technologies to improve efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability.
In addition to its FSAP and ROSC assessments, the Bank works at the regional and country levels,
strengthening financial supervision and the regulatory framework. In Brazil, for example, the Bank is helping the authorities improve the legal and incentive environment for financial services, focusing on strengthening the central bank’s functions and dealing with corporate governance and financial contract enforcement.
Promoting the Rule of Law
The rule of law is essential to equitable economic development and sustainable poverty reduction. Weak legal and judicial systems undermine the fight against poverty on many fronts: they divert investment to markets with more predictable rule-based environments, deprive important sectors of the use of productive assets, and mute the voice of citizens in the decisionmaking process. Vulnerable individuals, including women and children, are unprotected from violence and other forms of abuse that exacerbate economic inequalities. Ineffectual enforcement of laws engenders environmental degradation, corruption, money laundering, and other problems that burden people and economies around the world.
The diversity of the world’s cultures, traditions, and political systems does not allow for a single recipe for legal and judicial reform. The needs of each country must be assessed individually, involving key stakeholders in the public and private sectors. With comprehensive and appropriately tailored and sequenced reform initiatives, the Bank can succeed in assisting its member countries to systematically strengthen their rule of law.
In the past year legal and judicial sector assessments were completed with Bank assistance in Mongolia, Romania, Vietnam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Several more assessments are presently in progress or planned. Bank-financed legal and judicial development projects continue to increase, supporting activities such as law reform, court modernization, training for judges and court personnel, and legal education. Commercial mediation centers and pilot courts have been established in countries including Argentina, Ecuador, Mongolia, and Sri Lanka.
New lending for stand-alone projects in legal and judicial reform in Colombia and Mongolia, financed by Learning and Innovation Loans, amounted to $10 million for fiscal 2002, with another $104 million in preparation for fiscal 2003 projects in Argentina, Cambodia, El Salvador, Guinea, Peru, and the Philippines.
IMPROVING THE LEGAL CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Improving a country’s climate for investment requires strengthening the legal regime and its related
In July 200 f the Legal Vice Presidency sponsored its second global con fer-ence on law and justice in St. Petersburg, Russia. Judges, lawyers, and other participants from over 75 countries discussed "Empowerment, Security, and Opportunity through Law and Justice."
institutions for a market economy. In countries including Georgia, Indonesia, Lithuania, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Uganda, the Bank has helped to improve financial and private sector capacity through new central bank and commercial banking legislation, capital markets initiatives, and corporate and commercial legislation; to facilitate the emergence and expansion of private sector firms and the efficient liquidation of irretrievably insolvent firms; and to ensure appropriate regulation of the private provision of public services. These activities are supported by the Bank’s analytical work identifying the effect of legislation, regulatory arrangements, and institutional capacity on the investment climate; and by the Bank’s in-depth, country-by-country, financial sector assessments, legal and judicial sector assessments, insolvency and creditor rights systems assessments, and corporate governance and securities market assessments.
Fair and efficient legal mechanisms for debt resolution play a pivotal role in fostering commercial confidence and enabling markets to more accurately price, manage, and resolve default risk, while encouraging enterprise rehabilitation, job preservation, and transfer of assets to more efficient market users. Following the 1997-98 financial crises in emerging markets, the Bank led an international coalition in developing the Principles and Guidelines for Effective Insolvency and
Creditors Rights Systems. These principles, finalized in April 2001, are an important milestone in promoting international consensus on a uniform framework to assess the effectiveness of insolvency and creditor rights systems and to guide system reform and benchmarking in developing countries. In 2002 under the joint Bank-Fund program to develop ROSCs, the Bank completed a series of pilot country assessments based on these principles in Argentina, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, the Philippines, the Slovak Republic, South Africa, and Turkey. Assessments were also substantially completed in the Russian Federation and were initiated in Croatia, India, Morocco, Thailand, and Ukraine.
ENHANCING ACCESS TO JUSTICE FOR THE POOR
Access to justice is a key concern in the Bank’s law and justice efforts. Providing legal services for the poor is one way to help break down barriers to justice. In the past year grants made under the Bank-administered Japan Social Development Fund financed legal aid and other services for poor women in Ecuador, Jordan, and Sri Lanka.
Access to justice has also received significant attention at Bank-sponsored events over the past year. The second global conference organized by the Legal Vice Presidency, held in St. Petersburg, Russia, in July 2001, addressed the theme "Empowerment, Security, and
Opportunity through Law and Justice.” The Europe and Central Asia Regional Forum focused on law and justice issues specific to transition countries. In March 2002 a regional conference in Marrakech, Morocco, cosponsored by the Legal Vice Presidency and the U.N. Development Programme, addressed the topic “Strategies for Modernizing the Judicial Sector in the Arab Countries.” Most recently, in Washington, D.C., the Bank convened a second meeting of the International Advisory Council on Law and Justice, a council of world-renowned legal experts and jurists that advises the Bank on legal and judicial reform strategy, including empowerment of the poor. (See www.worldbank.org/ljr/.)
USING LAW FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
As a major mobilizer of resources to protect the global commons, the Bank continues to innovate with new legal instruments and to promote improved legislative models and legal knowledge sharing for sustainable development (see box 4.7).
The Bank has led the way with innovative international legal instruments under the Montreal and Kyoto Protocols. In 2002 the Montreal Protocol’s Multilateral Fund began financing the total phaseout of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) production and consumption in certain economies. The amount of $35.8 million was approved for the total phaseout of CFCs in The Bahamas, Malaysia, Thailand, and Turkey. A new voucher-based disbursement mechanism enables the Bank, as an implementing agency, to cost-effectively make grants available for the smaller activities carried out under the new approach.
The Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) moved fully into its operational phase in 2002. The PCF aims to purchase certified emission reductions from projects that reduce greenhouse gases; contributors to the PCF hope to use the purchased emission reductions to offset the targets agreed on under the Kyoto Protocol. In 2002 innovative purchase agreements were signed with Chile and Uganda, countries eligible under the protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism. These purchase agreements are being used as a model by other organizations and entities to address the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol.
The sustainability of fish stocks is a cause of increasing international concern in the field of natural
The Bank contributes to Knowledge sharing on substantive law and legallidevelopments through a number of Web resources.
The Global Insolvency Law Database (www. worldbank.org/gild) is a seminal forum for comparative research and dialogue! on questions of corporate insolvency and creditor rights systems, primarily legislative and regulatory reform, relevant public institutional capacity building, andi related policy issues.
The Global Banking Law Database (GBLD) (www.gbld.org), a joint Bank-Fund project, is searchable by jurisdiction and standard themes based on the Basel Committee Core^ Principles of Effective Bank Supervision. GBLD provides the first electronically accessible collection of commercial banking, central bank,
and deposit insurance laws for jurisdictions around, the world.	_■
The Legal and Judicial Reform page on the Bank's Web site (www.worldbank.org/ljr/) features online discussions of key legal and judicial reform themes, 5 information on Bank projects, a judicial indicator''-’, . database, a consultant database. and guided links to -related sites.	v	'	'
The Global Development Gateway (www. . . developmentgateway.org), an interactive Web portal designed to serve as a virtual forum for knowledge v sharing on major development topics, projects, and-programs, receives substantial content and support* . from the Bank, including for the Gateway's pages on . Environmental Law and Judicial and Legal Reform..; •
resources legislation. The Bank has developed a handbook, Legislating for Sustainable Fisheries, in collaboration with the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization. The handbook introduces the key aims and provisions of two major international conventions that are aimed at promoting sustainable fisheries, and it provides a toolkit of drafting techniques that countries may use to transform these provisions into national law. The handbook is the first in the new Law,
Justice, and Development series of monographs recently launched by the Legal Vice Presidency.
In June the Bank’s Legal Vice Presidency, together with the U.N. Environment Programme, cosponsored a conference in Montreal, “Sustainable Justice 2002: Implementing International Sustainable Development Law.” The conference’s recommendations on sustainable development law issues will be presented at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg.
Africa
A new dynamic has emerged on the continent, with African people and leaders increasingly taking the reins of the development agenda. Despite a difficult economic environment, growth in Africa has averaged about 3 percent in the last fiscal year, and well-managed countries, which have implemented solid reform agendas and built a record of stability and good governance, had an average growth of 4 percent. This still falls short of the 7 percent needed to reach the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of halving poverty by 2015. Governance issues continue to plague a number of countries in the region, while the slow pace or lack of political and economic progress in some of the key countries also affects investors’ perceptions of the continent.
While the prospect of Africa meeting the MDGs remains uncertain, the picture is not a uniform one. Increased primary school enrollments have improved prospects in education, but such progress has not been registered in the health sector. The spread of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is having an impact on growth and income and threatens to wipe out important gains in life expectancy.
The global economic slowdown has also had a negative impact on Africa’s development. Several countries registered slower export market growth, especially in nontraditional exports such as horticultural products. The situation has been particularly difficult for non-oil-commodity-dependent countries such as copper-producing Zambia or cotton-producing countries in West Africa. Farm subsidies in the industrial countries have also distorted and depressed prices for some products, limiting developing-country farmers’ prospects for escaping poverty. This situation has further highlighted the need for export diversification, which
has made it possible to cushion the economic shocks in several countries. Aid flows to Africa have been declining, having fallen in per capita terms by about 40 percent over the past decade, although recent commitments at the Monterrey conference hold out the prospect for a reversal of these trends.
Progress has been made toward restoring peace and stability in key parts of the continent. The peace process in Ethiopia and Eritrea is gradually progressing, bringing new hopes for development to one of the poorest parts of Africa. In the Great Lakes subregion the stabilization process in the Democratic Republic of Congo is progressing well and could turn a country where chaos and conflict have been predominant over the past 10 years into an engine of growth for the subregion. Sierra Leone is moving firmly toward lasting peace, and a peace treaty has been signed between the government and rebels in Angola, possibly ending Africa’s longest civil war. Violent conflict in Africa may have reduced growth rates in the region by between 1 and
2	percentage points over the past decade.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
IDA flows to Africa increased significantly in fiscal
2002,	reaching a 10-year high of $2.6 billion, and fiscal 2002 commitments reached $3.7 billion. The increase was a result of both improved management of the project portfolio in the Africa region and evidence of significant improvements in the policy environment in a majority of African countries.
This increase is expected to be sustained in the coming years, with the objective of 50 percent of IDA resources being directed to Africa. New commitments were channeled through both adjustment and investment operations, but while adjustment lending remained at the level of the 11th Replenish-
ment of IDA (IDA11), investment operations are expected to increase by over 60 percent during the IDA 12 period (fiscal 2000-02). Disbursements are expected to gradually increase from the level of $2.25 billion reached in fiscal 2001.
This trend was accompanied by the further development of new instruments to channel resources directly to communities and grassroots organizations, tackle regionwide issues, and prepare for the introduction of grant components in Bank-funded projects. Also, in the context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), an increased share of resources will be channeled through programmatic lending, which is expected to represent 22 percent of lending under I DA 12, compared with 6 percent under IDA11. In parallel, the quality of Bank-funded projects increased notably. Sixty-four percent of projects completed in fiscal 2000 were rated satisfactory by the Operations Evaluation Department, which is a 10-year high. The proportion of projects and commitments at risk is down from 40 percent and 42 percent, respectively, in fiscal 1997 to 15 percent and 17 percent currently.
In order to maximize the impact of assistance, the allocation of IDA resources across countries has mirrored the quality of policies and institutions. Several countries, including Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda, have, as a result, received increased assistance. In addition, the Bank re-engaged in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Eritrea, and Ethiopia—countries emerging from conflict or political instability.
The Bank has continued its efforts to have African countries fully benefit from debt relief through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and to ensure the effective use of resources in alleviating poverty. Under the Initiative, 26 countries (of which 22 are in Africa) were granted $41 billion in debt service relief from all creditors, reducing debt by about two-thirds and increasing social spending by some $830 million per year.
REGIONAL PRIORITIES
The Bank’s strategy in Africa is to accelerate progress toward the MDGs. The strategic objectives are consistent with those outlined by African heads of state in the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Framework and are based on the analysis of the seminal 2000 study, Can Africa Claim the 21st Century?
(see box 5.1). Four major areas of focus have been
identified: (a) improving governance and resolving conflict; (b) developing Africa’s enormous human resource potential; (c) diversifying production and increasing competitiveness; and (d) reducing aid dependence and debt, and strengthening the partnership with the donor community.
The Bank continues to focus on some important regional priorities, including postconflict support, capacity building, assistance in dealing with communicable
There is a growing consensus, both within Africa and among donors, that a rebalancing of power and accountability is needed among government, the private sector, and civil society, as well as a rebalancing between countries in the region and the donor community. This new development approach underpins the PRSP process as well as NEPAD.
NEPAD has amplified Africa's approach to poverty reduction. Adopted by African heads of state in July 2001, the homegrown framework puts primary responsibility for success on African governments and African people, and it emphasizes the importance of governance, participation, wider markets, and private initiative in ensuring development. A meeting in March
2002	involving delegations from 21 countries produced eight draft codes of behavior and set up an African peer review mechanism. Another meeting in April 2002 discussed private financing for development. Although it is new, NEPAD marks an important step toward
ensuring that Africans take the lead responsibility for their development strategies.
NEPAD builds on many of the principles of the PRSP approach that has been put into place at the national level. Over the past two years 39 countries have completed interim PRSPs and eight have completed full PRSPs. Several key lessons have already been learned. First, the principles underpinning the PRSP approach are rapidly taking root. Although the degree of effective participation varies with each country, the PRSP process has established a presumption in favor of openness, transparency, and participation. Second, civil society's efforts have improved PRSP content in many cases, particularly in drawing attention to the problems of social exclusion and bad governance. An analysis of budget trends for 32 low-income countries suggested that full PRSPs were associated with a significant increase in spending on basic social services between 1999 and 2001.
Millions of Africans still do not have access to safe drinking water Women in Ghana at a water post
diseases, further debt relief, market access for African products, and regional integration.
grant facility existing under IDA 12 to provide assistance to countries that took convincing steps toward social and economic recovery. The Democratic Republic of Congo received a $50 million grant to help stabilize the economy and contribute to addressing such pressing issues as HIV/AIDS. The Bank also developed an operational agenda to better tackle postconflict issues.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
The Bank continues to support efforts in Africa to build capacity and strengthen institutions. It works through the Harare-based African Capacity-Building Foundation, to which it has made a $150 million multiyear commitment in support of the Foundation’s activities. The Bank is also facilitating knowledge and experience sharing among African professionals.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT	,,
Communicable Diseases
The Bank increased support to African countries that	Health issues, particularly communicable diseases such
are emerging from conflict, taking advantage of the	as HIV/AIDS, pose important challenges for Africa’s
development. The Bank has approved $1 billion to fight HIV/AIDS in Africa, and $552.5 million has been committed in 16 countries; projects are under preparation in 15 others. The continued spread of HIV/AIDS is wiping out important gains in life expectancy in the region; the disease has already claimed the lives of more than 18 million Africans. World Bank support this year reached more countries and subregional HIV/AIDS programs. For the first time, the Bank provided support for cross-border HIV/AIDS initiatives, targeting such transportation routes as the Abidjan-Lagos corridor, which passes through Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin, and Nigeria. The Bank is also involved in regional programs such as the Onchocerciasis Control Program and the Roll Back Malaria Campaign.
Trade and Integration
Regional integration in Africa is seen as one approach to creating a larger economic space with more opportunities for investors and entrepreneurs. The Bank is supporting regional efforts to create integrated markets and initiatives aimed at increasing cooperation to address common issues in a regional context, such as with the Nile Basin Initiative. Two regional IDA operations became effective in fiscal 2002: a $9.4 million project to strengthen payments systems in the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union, and a $5 million trade facilitation project in East Africa.
The Bank has been a fervent advocate for a fairer post-Doha trade system, urging industrial countries to increasingly open their markets to African products. The Bank has also provided technical support to African countries in trade negotiations.
East Asia and Pacific
The East Asia and Pacific region was hard hit by the global economic downturn of 2001. Growth fell from over 7 percent to less than 5 percent. But a quicker and more robust regional recovery appeared to be under way by early 2002, supported by a stronger-than-expected recovery in major export markets like the United States and solid local private consumer spending. A more balanced recovery resting on increased exports and domestic demand seemed likely. Political stability improved as new governments in Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand strengthened their mandates and their credibility with the public. China’s still-robust economy was pulling in imports at a near-10 percent pace in the first several months of 2002 and continued as a bright spot in the regional export and economic picture, enhanced by the anticipated impact of China’s entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO), the increased pace of its institutional reform program, and its emergence as a key center of regional trade and investment flows.
The impact of the 2001 downturn on poverty in East Asia and Pacific was muted because growth fell most in countries with low poverty. Robust growth in China and other transition countries, which contain the large majority of the region’s poor, helped offset any widening income disparities. Still, a sustained regional recovery is important to counter the long-term trend of slow poverty reduction since the mid-1990s—and to ensure that countries in East Asia remain on track to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
One of the Bank’s primary objectives is to support poverty reduction in the client countries, using country assistance strategies that are focused on the countries’ development needs. Strategic alliances
and partnerships play a large role in the effectiveness of this approach. During the fiscal year the Bank supplemented policy advice and technical support with nearly $1.8 billion in new loans, covering about 27 projects. The strategic thrust of Bank assistance continues to focus on building the climate for investment, improving public sector governance, investing in poor people and empowering them, and protecting the environment (see box 5.2)
BOX 5.2 POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGIES IN EAST ASIA—REGIONAL, NATIONAL,
AND LOCAL
In Cambodia, East Timor, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Indonesia, Mongolia, and Vietnam, programs are under way to develop nationally owned Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). Governments have taken the lead on a comprehensive strategy that draws on participatory poverty assessments, consultations with civil society, and coordination with donor partners. PRSP teams from these countries recently met in Hanoi at a conference sponsored by the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, and U.N. Development Programme to learn from each other's experiences. A follow-up session shared lessons on integrating gender issues into poverty strategies. In Vietnam local governments and communities are , taking the lead in developing their own targets and action plans to meet the MDGs with Bank and Department for International Development (DfID) support. In Mongolia and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Bank is carrying out reviews of public expenditure, financial management, and procurement to help underpin an improved budgetary focus on the poor.
A schoolgirl studying in Ningxia Province, China, at a school whose village is benefiting from the Qinba Mountains Poverty Project, which is helping the Chinese government improve the quality of and access to basic education.
The region’s effectiveness is enhanced by basing nearly one-half of the staff and all country directors in the field. The Bank also increasingly emphasizes work at the subnational level. This shift helps deepen the reach of reforms at the national level and reflects an increasing trend of subnational responsibility for service delivery and financing in the region. An estimated 40 percent of the Philippines expenditures, 35 percent in Thailand (by 2006), and 25 percent in Indonesia are being delivered in this way.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Domestic business revitalization and recovery in private capital flows call for more emphasis on strengthening the investment climate. The Bank is preparing a legal reform loan in Mongolia and is undertaking legal needs assessments in a number of countries, including Vietnam. In China the Bank is providing technical assistance on financial sector reform, access by small and medium enterprises to financial services, government bond market development, and securities market regulation—reforms made all the more urgent by China’s accession to the WTO.
To help regional competitiveness and to meet high-tech challenges, the Bank is investing in information infrastructure, technology innovation and adaptation, and skills development. It is sponsoring country Innovation Days as part of the global Development Marketplace—a competition encouraging innovation and creative partnerships among nongovernmental organizations, businesses, and government. In Thailand it is funding 16 proposals to increase access to information services in rural communities in order to help bridge the urban-rural digital divide. A new report analyzes the Republic of Korea’s experience with firm innovation and its implications for public policy. The Bank carried out assessments of transportation and logistics in Cambodia, and in lagging regions of China, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Vietnam, to identify ways to improve access to markets for low-income areas.
IMPROVING PUBLIC SERVICES AND GOVERNANCE
The Bank’s governance work focuses on decentralization, building subnational capacity, increasing public sector transparency and accountability, and fostering stakeholder participation in project design and implementation. Public expenditure reviews at the local government level are taking place in China and Indonesia. In Thailand the Country Development Partnership in Governance supports government efforts to improve the delivery of public services, strengthen government decisionmaking, and promote accountability and transparency.
In China the Bank is working with the government to update the Ministry of Finance’s competitive bidding guidelines by introducing fraud and anticorruption measures. It is also helping to improve
transparency in procurement by establishing safeguards for World Bank projects and setting up new procurement procedures governed by a new bidding law. Civil servants and project staff were trained on the new procurement framework. The Bank carried out about 30 postprocurement reviews once the new guidelines were in place. It has also used the Global Distance Learning Network to conduct workshops on anticorruption approaches in other parts of the region, involving government and civil society in Bangkok, Jakarta, Manila, and Singapore.
East Timor’s Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project has set up 400 village development councils and funds more than 800 smaller projects. In Vietnam two IDA credit agreements were approved this year for decentralized, participatory projects to help reduce poverty in 979 poor communities and help
3.4	million poor people by making investments in rural roads and markets, irrigation and water supply, basic education and health, and community development budgets—all based on the expressed needs of poor households and communities.
Reducing Vulnerability and Ensuring That Poor People Benefit from Growth
Bank strategy has evolved from supporting safety nets and crisis assessment to focusing on a social policy framework that helps households manage social risks and enables the poor to participate in the benefits of growth. Social programs emphasize community empowerment and demand-driven approaches to
promote efficiency, transparency, and effectiveness. In China the Bank has embarked on a unique partnership with DfID, the British government aid arm, to finance a tuberculosis (TB) control project aimed at helping China meet its global TB targets by 2005 by expanding directly observed treatment, short course (DOTS) to at least 90 percent of the country’s population and identifying and treating 2 million infections.
The Bank has also been channeling support to areas of extreme poverty. In Indonesia, to improve road conditions in its lagging eastern region, a regional transportation project will serve 15 provinces in the eastern islands. In Vietnam the Rural Electrification Project aims to bring electricity to 2 million people in 32 provinces and 671 communities, one-third of which are designated as the poorest. A Global Development Learning Center has been opened in Ningxia to transfer knowledge to one of the poorest parts of China.
Protecting the Environment
The Bank is funding studies of the links between poverty and the environment in Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, and Vietnam. It is funding a forest conservation project in Papua New Guinea in partnership with the Global Environment Facility. With one-half of the population in the region’s major countries living in cities, urban air and water pollution is an extremely serious problem—which the Bank is addressing through investments in environmental infrastructure and policy advice. In the area of sanitation, the Bank has promoted the creation of
autonomous water and wastewater companies and the establishment of tariffs and pollution charges—both to reduce emissions and as a means of financing operation and maintenance to guarantee long-term sustainability. 1’he largest share of the Bank’s pollution abatement investment has been lor water pollution.
The Bank is also working on rural development and land management. A land management project in Cambodia was approved in fiscal 2002 and aims to assist the government in developing relevant policies and regulations while establishing titling programs, under which about 1 million titles will be issued.
South Asia
South Asia is a region of tremendous political, religious, ethnic, and linguistic diversity. With a population of 1.4 billion, South Asia has the world’s largest concentration of poverty and some of the worst human development indicators, particularly for women. The economic and social progress of this region is of significance to the entire world and to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. While the region’s growth performance has continued to be respectable in the aggregate at around 5 to 6 percent for over a decade and 5.4 percent for 2001, it is still below South Asia’s potential. The aggregate figure also masks large variations in performance among the eight South Asian countries, all of which face common challenges of accelerating growth and human resource development by making their economies more competitive and better integrated with the world economy, and expanding the provision of health and education services, especially for poor people.
Events in fiscal 2002 influenced South Asia dramatically, from the opening up of Afghanistan to increased tension between India and Pakistan and renewed hope of peace in Sri Lanka with the expected commencement of a peace process. In Bangladesh a national election brought a new government to power in a poll read widely as a resounding call for change and better government.
In Nepal the escalating Maoist insurgency brushed aside earlier hopes of a dialogue, and uncertainty across the region has had a negative impact on foreign investment.
Poverty in South Asia—and its measurement— is the focus of an energetic debate in the region (see box 5.3). Poverty has continued to decline from over 40 percent in the mid-1980s to current estimates of around 25 percent in India and slightly
more than 30 percent in Bangladesh, Nepal, arid Pakistan. However, there are indications, too, that poverty might have stagnated or even risen in Nepal and Pakistan over the past decade. Equally important in the fight against poverty are indicators of health and education, which continue to be low in South Asia, with women particularly disadvantaged.
BOX 5.3 REDUCING POVERTY	:
India accounts for one-third of the world's poor, so reducing poverty in this nation of over 1 billion people is a challenge of global significance. The current Bank country assistance strategy (CAS) for India focuses on both strengthening the enabling environment for growth and on.. pro-poor interventions such as health and education, rural development, and the expansion of access to economic opportunities for poor people.
A program of analytical work on poverty is under way in support of the latter interventions, including country and state level poverty assessments, and technical assistance in monitoring both access to social services and changes in poverty levels. In January 2002 the Indian Planning Commission and the World Bank gathered national and international experts to discuss the measurement of poverty and ways in which accuracy of information generated by household surveys could be improved. The government has also requested that the Bank help develop a project to implement a wide range of recommendations made by the National Statistical Commission to modernize India's statistical system.
Approved in June 2002, the Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project in Afghanistan focuses on a countrywide plan for learning and skill development.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank’s focus in South Asia has continued to be on supporting sustainable reforms: fiscal consolidation, privatization, trade liberalization, and banking reform; establishing transparency, effectiveness, and accountability of public institutions; and supporting the expansion of services to the poor. Bank lending is based on an extensive program of analytical work in the form of reports, workshops, policy notes, and ongoing policy dialogue.
Lending for fiscal 2002 was $3.5 billion, concentrated on support for reform and investments in agriculture, health, education, and infrastructure. In
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, policy dialogue was the focus of the Bank’s program.
Afghanistan’s rapid transition from the status of a country in conflict to one of full re-engagement with the Bank has demanded an intense focus from Bank staff (see box 5.4).
Lending in India is guided in every sector by analytical work; in fiscal 2002 the Bank delivered both transportation and health sector reports, which were discussed with national and state authorities. A review of power sector reforms, where progress continues to be a challenge, drew on the experience of Orissa and other states, as well as international experience.
Pakistan is in the third year of a comprehensive program of reform designed to turn around deteriorating economic performance and restore the integrity of the country’s institutions.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Building a healthy investment climate has been an important Bank priority across the region. In India and Pakistan, firms were surveyed in reviews of the investment environment that helped identify the main constraints to private investment, as seen by investors themselves. Adjustment lending in Pakistan, and at the state level in India (in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh), explicitly supported policy reforms that seek to restore fiscal sustainability, reform public expenditure management, and improve the overall functioning of governments to increase efficiency in the use of public resources and delivery of social services.
The provision of roads is a critical component of the Bank’s poverty focus, improving the productivity of the economy and opening up market access and delivery of basic services to the poor. Infrastructure projects in India and Nepal sought to provide much-needed investments that will help reduce transportation and telecommunication costs. These include three projects in India: the Kerala State Transport Project (IBRD $255 million); the Mizoram State Road Transport Project (IDA $60 million); and the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (IBRD $463 million and IDA $79 million); and in Nepal, a Telecommunication Sector Reform Project ($22.6 million). In India the transportation sector report complements the Bank’s ongoing support for highways and looks ahead to next steps.
Power reform is particularly important in South Asia. In virtually every country, but particularly in
Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan, large subsidies for power have become the single largest source of fiscal imbalances. Reduction of these subsidies is an essential step to restoring national and subnational fiscal balances and to freeing resources for much-needed investments in infrastructure and social services. In addition, availability of reliable power is a key constraint to private sector investments and activities, and reduces opportunities for rural employment and growth.
In Pakistan a newly expanding Bank program has supported institutional reforms through analytical work, advisory services, dialogue, and lending of $800 million for fiscal 2002, including a banking sector credit of $300 million. Institutional reforms have focused on financial management, decentralization, tax reform, reorganization of the central bank, and corruption, all captured in the CAS presented to the Board in June 2002 and designed to support the implementation of Pakistan’s poverty reduction strategy for the next three years.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
The empowerment of poor people is a central objective in South Asia, again pursued through both analytical and advisory services and lending. Poverty assessments in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan are increasing the understanding of recent poverty trends and the reasons behind them. In India the findings of the health report will guide future Bank engagement, starting with a Health Systems Development Project being prepared for Rajasthan.
To help organize communities, increase economic opportunities to the poor, and increase access by the poor to social services and infrastructure, the Bank has financed community-based projects in India with the Karnataka Tank Management (IDA $99 million), Rajasthan (IDA $140 million), and Uttar Pradesh (IDA $149.2 million) Water Sector Restructuring Projects, and the Second Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (IDA $151.6 million).
In education a successful stipend program is helping to improve school enrollment of girls in Bangladesh through the second phase of an IDA $120.9 million loan approved in March. Additionally, in Afghanistan, a $15 million grant is supporting skills development for women and girls with a special focus on underserved groups such as war widows and illiterate young women.
|	Since the collapse of the Taliban and the installa-
j	tion of the U.N.-brokered Afghanistan Interim ‘
? . ■
I	Administration, the most urgent need has been the
j	creation of sustainable security and the urgent
i	opening up of opportunities to bring Afghan ‘
!	women and men into the process of restarting the
!	country's economic and social development. • ‘
|	In November 2001 a conference on preparing •
|	for Afghanistan's reconstruction was hosted in
!	Islamabad by the Bank with its partners, the U.N. '
!	Development Programme and the Asian Develop-
I	merit Bank. This set the stage for the rapid delivery
of a joint preliminary needs assessment in prepara^
tiori for an international donor conference in
i	Tokyo, at which over $4.5 billion was pledged by all
|	donors to rebuild the war-ravaged country. Since
j	then, and faithful to the guiding principle that
i	Afghanistan's recovery has to be led first and fore-
|	most by Afghans themselves, the Bank's Board has
1	approved four emergency projects with an empha-
* .
j	sis on supporting the administration of incoming
i	funds with transparency and accountability, and a
|	series of efforts designed to provide quick delivery
■	in areas such as education, infrastructure, and com-
i muriity participation.	*	.
j	A total of	$100 million has been delivered in
|	grant support from IDA. The Bank's re-engagement
j	is guided by a	Transitional Support Strategy that
;	was approved	by the Board on April 4, 2002. The	.	V
;	Bank is also administering the Afghanistan Recon-;
struction Fund. In April, and under the chairman- . ship of Afghanistan's Ministry of Finance, donors and international agencies met in Kabul to discuss the administration's National Development Framework and fiscal 2002 recurrent budget . requirements.	‘	•
In Pakistan the Poverty' Assessment and the government’s interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) represented the first substantive focus on strategic priorities for poverty reduction in Pakistan in over five years. The Poverty Assessment presents a deep understanding of poverty trends throughout the 1990s, and the I-PRSP was hailed by the Bank’s Board as one of the finest examples of poverty reduction planning.
In India, water-related diseases are a major health problem. For women and children, fetching water remains an arduous and time-consuming daily task Four projects totaling over $450 million in interest-free IDA support have been provided to India’s water sector in the current fiscal year
GLOBAL PRIORITY: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
With 4.2 million people infccted in South Asia, human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (F1IV/AIDS) in the region is a picture of low prevalence but high risk. Governments in the region have recognized the effectiveness of early responses—beginning with India in 1992—and are shaping public health policies with a focus on prevention, health promotion in high-risk populations, mitigation, and somewhat hesitantly, treatment. The Bank has supported this process through advisory and analytical assistance and lending which, for HIV/AIDS, amounts to $326.7 million for existing projects, with new projects proposed for Pakistan and Sri Lanka. All countries now have strong national programs, except Nepal, where implementation of the national program is weak and poorly financed, and Afghanistan, where the situation needs to be assessed. Bank-supported HIV/AIDS projects are under implementation in India, where the $191 million Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project is ongoing, and in Bangladesh with the HIV/AIDS Prevention Project funded by $40 million from IDA and $10 million from the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development.
In Pakistan the government has been implementing a modest National AIDS Control Program since 1989 with some support from the Bank. Aware of the growing challenge, the government has now sought to expand this program based on the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework. With Bank analytical support, a project has been under preparation in fiscal 2002. The Sri Lankan government is developing a program along similar lines.
Europe and Central Asia
All economies in Europe and Central Asia—except Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia—grew during 2001. The Russian Federation and Ukraine, the last economies to emerge from the unexpectedly long “transformation recession,” grew at 5 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively. Overall, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) grew at 6.6 percent. In Central and Eastern Europe growth averaged 3.5 percent. In Turkey, however, markets responded somewhat more slowly than expected to reforms, resulting in an output decline of 6.5 percent.
Notwithstanding this broad-based growth, Europe and Central Asia remains highly diverse, both in terms of per capita income and global integration. Per capita income ranges from $10,070 in Slovenia to $170 in Tajikistan. Poverty prevalence— although now generally declining as a result of the region’s continuing growth—ranges from under 5 percent to over 50 percent of the population.
While many countries, especially those in Central Europe and the Baltics, are firmly headed toward European and global integration and graduation from Bank borrowing, others still struggle with long-simmering tensions and the constraints of geography.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Europe and Central Asia’s diversity is reflected in the evolution of the Bank’s assistance program. To accommodate a rapidly changing relationship with the advanced EU accession countries, the region developed a partnership framework for phasing and prioritizing support to these countries, the Pro-
posed Framework for World Bank Group Support to EU Accession Candidate Countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In Southeast Europe the regional strategy continued to evolve from postconflict stabilization and reconstruction to structural reform and institutional development. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia’s eligibility for Bank lending was restored, and a major program of adjustment and investment lending was successfully launched. The Bank’s postconflict program of assistance to Kosovo continued. The seven IDA-eligible CIS countries—Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, known as the CIS-7—along with bilateral donors, neighboring countries, and four international financial institutions (including the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development [EBRD], and Asian Development Bank) launched a collaborative international effort to accelerate growth and poverty reduction through intensified development and reform efforts and the strengthened involvement of the international community. And finally, the deepening of reforms in the region’s larger economies, while increasing the need for Bank financial assistance in Turkey and Ukraine, is shifting the demand for Bank services toward analytic and advisory activities in Russia.
The Bank’s Europe and Central Asia region operations during fiscal 2002 continued to emphasize investments, policy reforms, and institutional development needed to underpin sustained growth and poverty reduction in transition and postconflict countries, and an accelerated structural reform program in crisis-stricken Turkey (see box 5.5). Lending during the year (inclusive of four special financing operations) reached $5.5 billion (of which $0.6 billion were IDA and $4.9 billion were IBRD). Significant additions were made to the region’s
Global Environmental Facility (GEF) portfolio with seven new projects totaling $31 million. On the nonlending front, several major activities were completed, including a retrospective report on the transition experience in Europe and Central Asia, a regionwide survey of the gender impacts of transition, and an analysis of the potential fiscal impacts of EU accession on EU accession candidate countries.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Most countries in Europe and Central Asia are relatively well endowed, for their income levels, with physical and human capital. The most serious constraints on growth and poverty reduction lie in policies and institutions that distort the framework for economic decisionmaking. This is reflected in comparative ratings of business environments, in which countries in Europe and Central Asia typically fare poorly. The Bank is tackling the underlying policy and institutional constraints through support of systemic reforms, which include maintaining macroeconomic stability, legal reform, and improved corporate governance; sectoral reforms such as utility regulation and pricing, and better functioning labor and financial markets; and selective investments in industrial restructuring and infrastructure. To focus on achieving results in the field, the Bank has been financing systematic enterprise surveys that track changes in the business environment both at the country level (in Bosnia, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine) and at the regional level, together with EBRD, with the Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey.
IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE
Countries in Europe and Central Asia, particularly the CIS, also fare relatively poorly on governance indicators. To improve public sector performance, the Bank has supported reforms to encourage voice, transparency, and accountability through decentralization in Russia, Ukraine, Central Europe, and Southeast Europe. It has supported reforms to enhance participation and competition in public service delivery and to marshal the power of data to monitor outcomes with expenditure-tracking surveys in Albania and Macedonia. It has supported the strengthening of government institutions through tax and customs reforms in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine, and through country financial accountability assessments in Albania and Azerbaijan.
It has promoted the adoption of new technologies with support to e-government (applying information and communications technologies to improve government functioning) efforts in Russia and Ukraine. Finally, it has supported anticorruption programs in Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Romania, and the Slovak Republic.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
Empowerment presents a special challenge in much of the Europe and Central Asia region, where traditions
BOX 5.5 HELPING THE POOR WEATHER ECONOMIC CRISIS—TURKEY'S SOCIAL RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
With the support of the $100 million rapid response component of a $500 million hybrid loan from the Bank, in the 2001 calendar year Turkey was able to reach 1.6 million poor people who have been hurt by the economic crisis of February 2001. Cash and in-kind assistance, valued at about $35 per person, was provided to over 1 million poor schoolchildren. The money was used for out-of-pocket expenses such as clothing, textbooks, and stationery—with the objective of supporting poor families and, more importantly, preventing the schoolchildren from dropping out of school. This support helped prevent about 100,000 school dropouts.
Food assistance was made available during the religious festival season to 400,000 poor households suffering from the economic downturn.
Given the depth of the crisis, most beneficiaries require continued support throughout the year and prefer cash to in-kind assistance.
A further 200,000 very poor households received cash and in-kind assistance for coal heating to provide warmth over the severe winter.
These activities provided lessons that clarified the priorities for strengthening and improving the social safety net in Turkey. Of key importance are conditional cash transfers to help meet basic needs and cash for social assistance to the poorest 8 percent of the population, with the requirement that the beneficiaries keep their children in school and take their preschool children regularly to health clinics:
and institutions of voice and accountability generally are still nascent. The Bank’s support for improving the investment climate and its support for improving public sector governance both have strong empowerment dimensions. The Bank is also promoting empowerment through emphasizing broad participation in the preparation of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). Three countries completed their interim PRSPs (1-PRSPs) during fiscal 2002: Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Kyrgyz Republic. In addition, Albania completed a full PRSP, the first in the Europe and Central Asia region. In total, nine countries have
prepared I-PRSPs or full PRSPs (see http://poverty. worldbank.org). The Bank is supporting PRSP implementation using a mixture of country-specific instruments. Direct poverty reduction lending focused on improving the risk management capability of the poor in postconflict countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and in economic crisis situations such as in Turkey. Many new operations will use community-driven development approaches to confront economic and social risks in a participatory manner, including multisectoral social funds in Bulgaria, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Tajikistan, and Ukraine. These operations increasingly target persistent poverty among the long-term unemployed and ethnic minorities.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
Fighting Communicable Diseases The number of people living with human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) in Europe and Central Asia has dramatically increased to 1 million over the past decade, with one-quarter of infections occurring in the past three years. Tuberculosis (TB) is also on the rise, with approximately 250,000 new cases each year, many of which are multidrug-resistant. Due to the links between the two diseases, the Bank is providing technical and financial support for the development of standalone projects in Europe and Central Asia that aim to tackle the epidemics in Belarus, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine. The Bank will also provide support to TB and AIDS activities in the context of health sector projects in other countries in the region.
Protecting the Environriient
Ozone-depleting substance phaseout work was completed in Russia under a GEF operation that began in the late 1990s. Projects in Croatia, Romania, and Ukraine were added to the Bank’s GEF portfolio, and implementation of a forestry project commenced in Russia. Support was provided to establish effective public-private partnerships for improved environmental performance in Bulgaria; to deal with inherited environmental problems in Albania and Turkey; to use economic instruments and manage public finances for enhanced environmental protection in the Republic of Serbia, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Ukraine; and to help EU accession candidates to identify cost-
effective investment strategies to comply with EU environmental standards.
Supporting Trade and Integration
There are substantial untapped opportunities for cooperation in many of Europe and Central Asia’s subregions. Together with the European Commission, Europe and Central Asia programs provide support to EU accession candidates on numerous subregional activities, including transportation, environment, energy, and knowledge economy strategies. Analytical work on trade issues has also been undertaken for the countries of Southeast Europe that are not EU accession candidates, including five country studies, a regional report in progress, and technical assistance. In the CIS-7, studies of trade, transportation, and telecommunications have been carried out. Bank support for trade integration in Russia and Ukraine is focusing on technical assistance for WTO accession.
Improving Information and Knowledge
The Bank has initiated a dialogue with EU accession candidates to help the countries develop strategies to increase their international competitiveness through more effective use of knowledge and technology in both the public and private sectors. Approaches taken in these countries could provide lessons and experience
throughout the region. The Bank has also begun to implement a broad-based program for the establishment of a Global Development Learning Network (GDLN). In addition to the distance learning center established in Ukraine last year, four additional centers became affiliated with the GDLN in fiscal 2002: two in Turkey and one each in Russia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Work has also commenced on the establishment of an additional 10 to 12 centers in eight countries in the region.
International Financial Architecture
The Bank was an active participant in the Financial Sector Assessment Program, with assessments completed during the fiscal year in Croatia, Georgia, and Latvia, and six additional assessments initiated for completion in fiscal 2003 and 2004 in Bulgaria, the Kyrgyz Republic, Lithuania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine. As part of the review of standards and codes incorporated in these assessments, evaluations of the legal and institutional framework for dealing with money laundering and terrorist financing are now being incorporated in the analyses. The Bank has also hosted, with the World Bank Institute, the first regional dialogue—involving five countries in the region—on issues related to combating money laundering and terrorist financing.
Latin America and the Caribbean
While the economy of Latin America and the Caribbean recovered from the shocks triggered by the 1998-99 crises in Asia and Russia, the recovery was short lived. After increasing from 0.1 percent in 1999 to 3.9 percent in 2000, the region’s annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth declined to 0.4 percent in 2001. It is expected to decline slightly in 2002 as a result of a weak global economy, a sharp contraction in Argentina, and drought in Brazil and Central America.
A decline in the growth of world trade and drops in export commodity prices reduced Latin America and the Caribbean’s export revenue growth to
1.4	percent in 2001, after a 19 percent rise in 2000. The trade surpluses of oil exporters decreased, but trade balances increased in other countries in the region as they imported less due to slower GDP growth. Overall, the region’s trade surplus increased by $17 billion, while the current account deficit widened by $5 billion as a result of lower receipts from tourism and remittances.
Evidence of progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals in Latin America and the Caribbean surfaced in 1999 data showing that the proportion of people living on less than $1 a day had declined from 16.8 percent in 1990 to 15.1 percent. Some of these gains were likely lost in 2001 due to a decline in per capita GDP growth, especially in Central America and the Caribbean, which was hit by drought, low coffee prices, a drop in tourist traffic after September 11, and a decline in foreign remittances stemming from the U.S. economic slowdown. Given expected trends in per capita GDP, poverty will likely rise in 2002 and perhaps decline modestly in 2003. Increases in poverty levels will be
most pronounced in Argentina and neighboring countries affected by its crisis.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
In fiscal 2002 the Bank’s strategy in Latin America and the Caribbean remained focused on fighting poverty while including adjustments to respond quickly to urgent social needs prompted by events such as the economic crisis in Argentina, a slump in Caribbean tourism, and reconstruction in El Salvador after two earthquakes in early 2001. In lamaica and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, where airline tourist visits dropped following the terrorist attacks, the Bank provided $75 million and $20.9 million, respectively, to protect social programs and to strengthen airport security. The Bank’s new assistance strategy for El Salvador coincided with the reconstruction effort there and included a $142.6 million loan to help restore health services undermined by the 2001 earthquakes that severely damaged hospitals and health facilities.
The Bank’s commitment to fighting communicable diseases was underscored in Latin America and the Caribbean, too, with support for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) prevention and treatment in Barbados, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, and Jamaica.
In Argentina, as economic conditions deteriorated during 2001, the Bank provided a $400 million structural adjustment loan to bolster the government’s efforts to reverse increasing market pessimism. By year’s end, however, a serious economic and political crisis triggered an abrupt change in government and economic policies. The Bank responded with advice and technical support in key areas such as the banking sector, corporate debt restructuring, renegotiations of public utility tariffs, and provincial finances, while also redirecting
$100 million from ongoing social sector operations to support an emergency social program. This included vaccines, maternal and child health care, blood
banks, public health care, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) AIDS medicines, food kitchens, and educational supplies for high-risk schools. Work also began on another social protection program—to provide income supplements to the unemployed with dependents, and to respond to the needs of a growing number of families living in poverty.
With about 170 million of the region’s 510 million people living on less than $2 a day, of whom 70 million live on less than $1 a day, the Bank’s loans and analytical work seek to improve the investment climate while also supporting local efforts to empower people, communities, and governments. Specifically, the Bank’s priorities in the region are education, strengthening the financial sector, social protection, institutional reform and governance, empowerment and inclusion of excluded groups, and environmental sustainability.
In fiscal 2002 the Bank approved financing to stimulate and improve productivity in rural communities by supporting small businesses, farming inputs, and land management. Support was also provided to expand basic health and education services to low-income communities, and to assist governments seeking to maintain fiscal balances as they undertook policy reforms and investments in infrastructure.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Investment is essential to stimulating economic growth. The Latin America and the Caribbean region needs about $70 billion a year over the next five years—equivalent to its total foreign direct investment in 2000—to build and upgrade water, sewerage, roads, power, and transportation systems. These infrastructure needs are expanding in concert with the region’s rapid population growth, including large numbers of poor in the mushrooming cities, now home to 75 percent of the region’s people. The Bank is responding to this demand with 82 infrastructure projects worth over $8 billion that are currently under way. Private sector participation is also needed, within sound regulatory frameworks, to ensure that the poor have access to vital services at affordable prices. In Colombia the Bank provided $40 million to support reform of municipal water utilities in the Caribbean coastal region in order to enable the private sector investment needed to extend water services to the poor. The strategy replicates a scries of successful projects started in 1995 in Cartagena, which have resulted in about 50 water companies
delivering services with high customer satisfaction in several large municipalities across northern Colombia.
Conscious that investor confidence is won by countries whose governments are efficient and free of corruption, the Bank is working in partnership with Chile, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Panama. These partnerships support the modernization of financial management practices and the development of online government procurement practices that reduce red tape while strengthening impartiality and transparency. These efforts often complement Bank support for fiscal reform and decentralization, as in Argentina, Colombia, and Mexico, or judicial reform, as in El Salvador and Guatemala. They also integrate the use of new knowledge and information technologies, which are critical to increasing the global competitiveness of the region’s economies.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
The Bank is working with the nine states in Brazil’s northeast and in Minas Gerais to combat rural poverty with decentralized, community-driven approaches.
For example, during 2002 the Bank approved a project in the state of Sergipe to provide matching grants for rural community groups. The grants will help finance about 1,000 small-scale projects to create jobs and improve the health and well-being of some 52,000 families. This approach to social investment not only delivers water, health care, and agricultural extension services to poor families but also builds social capital and ensures that the communities themselves select and implement the projects. Similar community development projects are under way in Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Paraguay, and will be extended to the Amazon region.
Empowering poor people also includes initiatives to reach out to the region’s indigenous people, about 80 percent of whom live in extreme poverty, as well as to communities largely composed of Afro-descendants. In Brazil, Ecuador, and Peru, the Bank is supporting projects tailored to assist indigenous communities to regularize communal land rights, to promote the use of indigenous knowledge for more environmentally sustainable land management practices, and to build project management capacity.
Recognition of legal title is an essential condition for poor farmers of all ethnic origins to improve their economic status. The Bank has supported an effort in Colombia whereby 58 Afro-Colombian
These Achuar people of Ecuador's Amazon participate in the Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian People's Development Project. The Bank-supported project channels resources to over 4,000 communities to support land tenure regularization, farming inputs, microcredit schemes, and construction of schools and health posts.
community councils in the Pacific coastal Choco region gained title to almost 2.4 million hectares of rainforest on which they depend for hunting, fishing, and traditional farming. The Bank has supported similar land-titling initiatives in 10 countries, including Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.
A vital element in this grassroots, community-oriented approach is the Bank’s effort to engage civil society in developing its lending and knowledge products, especially in the rural, environmental, health, education, and social protection sectors, but increasingly in projects in judicial reform and infrastructure as well. Under the aegis of a new framework (see www.worldbank.org/laccs), the Latin America and the Caribbean region is also beginning to engage civil society around the Bank’s adjustment and programmatic lending in order to provide information on Bank projects to communities so that they can assess their impact and implementation. In Peru, for example, the Bank is backing a government-led effort to provide information on social programs, expenditures, and statistics to citizens in order to involve them in planning services and budgets at the local and national level, and to strengthen their capacity to monitor and evaluate public services (see box 5.6).
Natural resources are an asset for countries in Latin America and the Caribbean seeking to create high-quality jobs in the knowledge economy, according to a World Bank study. Despite recent stagnation of prices for many primary commodities and some disquieting trends in job quality and unemployment in the region, From Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy— Trade and Job Quality presents evidence that, "rich endowments of natural resources, combined with aggressive pursuit and adoption of more productive technologies, are a proven growth recipe."
Citing experiences in countries including Australia, Canada, Finland, and some Latin American countries, the report argues that it is not so much what is produced, but how it is produced. The critical complementary ingredients are high levels of human capital and knowledge networks that generate innovation and adoption of foreign technologies. The region's countries, it recommends, should pursue trade openness, develop human capital and innovation networks, and "not turn their backs on their natural wealth."
Middle East and North Africa
The Middle East and North Africa region was strongly impacted by the aftermath of events of |] September 11, with sharp declines in exports to Europe, the Middle East and North Africa’s main trading partner. In addition, continued violence in the Middle East has worsened investors’ perception of risks and is slowing down already limited foreign direct investment in the region. In 2001 economic growth had slowed to 3.1 percent (down from 4.2 percent the previous year), with sharp declines among oil exporters (from 3.6 percent to 2.5 percent), and more moderate declines among the diversified exporters (0.5 percentage points).
The lack of higher and sustained growth throughout the Middle East and North Africa has made the region’s greatest challenge—finding sufficient employment opportunities for the rapidly growing labor force—substantially more difficult. Although only 2.3 percent of the population is living on less than $1 a day, poverty remains a prime concern, with some 30 percent of the population living on less than $2 a day.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank’s overarching objectives in the region are to strengthen the momentum for building a climate for investment, job creation, and sustainable growth; and to empower the poor to become assets in the development process. During fiscal 2002 the Bank has worked to better identify' the key sources and impediments to growth, particularly in Algeria, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic, and in the West Bank and Gaza (see box 5.7). With
private sector development becoming a prime source of job creation, the Bank has worked extensively to improve the investment climate in the region. Projects and advisory services to strengthen financial sectors in Algeria and the Republic of Yemen; trade and competitiveness in Tunisia; private sector development in Algeria; and information technology in the West Bank and Gaza, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen are good examples. The weight of the public sector and governance issues also constitutes a serious impediment to more rapid growth. Work in fiscal 2002 has focused on improving public expenditure efficiency and public sector management in Algeria, Djibouti, Jordan, and Morocco, and decentralization in Algeria, Jordan, Tunisia, and the Republic of Yemen.
BOX 5.7 WEST BANK AND GAZA—SUPPORT IN A CONFLICT-AFFECTED AREA
In the West Bank and Gaza the Emergency Services Support Project addresses the deterioration of education, health, and social welfare services in the face of increasing inability of central institutions to meet nonsalary operating costs. The project targets key social service delivery agencies and municipalities, enabling them to help the segments of the population hardest hit by the ongoing conflict. The recently completed Emergency Response Program addressed rising unemployment and poverty by offering work opportunities to the most needy through community-based, labor-intensive microprojects. Both programs leveraged considerable donor funds.
Poverty assessments for Djibouti, Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Republic of Yemen, and social protection analyses for Lebanon, Morocco, and the region as a whole, have contributed to a better understanding of poverty and social exclusion issues. Under process-oriented economic and sector work, engagement with civil society actors in Morocco is giving over 200 civil society organizations a voice in identifying and addressing the challenges they face in participating in the development process. Ongoing work to strengthen education and health systems in Djibouti, Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, the Republic of Yemen, and the region as a whole also includes key elements to protect the poor. Finally, the region has launched a series of studies to analyze and advise on the various aspects of regional and global integration.
To achieve its objectives in the region, the Middle East and North Africa region is intensifying its partnership-building, knowledge-sharing, and outreach efforts at the strategy and implementation levels. At the regional level there is coordination with the African Development Bank and the Islamic Development Bank. The Luxembourg Process ensures semiannual coordination meetings among the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the Middle East and North Africa. In the West Bank and Gaza, where donor partnership is critical, 13 bilateral and multilateral agencies collaborated with the Bank and Palestinian technical specialists to prepare a comprehensive Emergency Assessment; the Bank-administered Palestinian Economic Assistance and Cooperation Expansion Facility has leveraged $26 million from five donors for an emergency employment program. At the thematic level, partnerships such as the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program, the Regional Water Initiative, and Cultural Heritage are leveraging the Bank’s work on sustainable development (see box 5.8). The jointly funded European Union-World Bank Program on Private Participation in Mediterranean Infrastructure, based in Brussels, helps promote key private sector and infrast ructure reforms in client countries. Public sector management is fostered through the Maghreb Public Procurement Modernization Initiative (see www.worldbank.org/mena).
In its knowledge-sharing activities the Middle East and North Africa region is piloting a nonlending, programmatic instrument to support the region’s countries on the basis of mutually agreed-on medium-term
outcomes. The new instrument will entail activities such as diagnostic pieces, training, and peer learning. It responds to the countries’ need for vehicles other than lending to deliver sustained engagement by the Bank on issues facing them. The Global Development Learning Network has now expanded from two distance-learning centers in Amman, Jordan, and Cairo, Egypt, to partners in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Work is ongoing to establish new partnerships in Bahrain, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, and the Republic of Yemen. Work is also ongoing on the Development Gateway for sites in Jordan, Morocco, and the West Bank and Gaza.
BOX 5.8 ENVIRONMENT PARTNERSHIP AND LEARNING—A TALE OF THE COMMONS
Under the Regional Initiative for Dryland Management, the Bank supports the partners—Egypt,
Israel, Jordan,.the Palestinian Authority, and Tunisia—in developing technical cooperation and sharing of know-how on sustainable management of natural resources in order to increase productivity and improve living standards in marginal areas. In the Gabes Governorate in Tunisia, the Initiative encourages young farmers to settle in the Dissa perimeter and start irrigated farming using the treated wastewater of the Gabes plant, thereby creating jobs and, at the same time, conserving the natural resource base. In Jordan (Wadi Mujib area), new water harvest structures have weathered a severe three-year drought, and plans are under way to scale up this technology to other areas. Earthen banks used for water harvesting have been reinforced by planting cactus—a technology introduced from Tunisia. The cactus, in turn, is harvested by farmers as feed for their livestock and as a source of income. In Egypt, in the northeast Wadi Urn Ashtan catchment, an intensive seed collection program for adapted forage and feed species conducted with local Bedouins was combined with maintenance of simple water-harvesting techniques to literally transform the area from a bare, sterile zone receiving only an annual average of 150 millimeters of rainfall to a productive one.
The above-mentioned objectives are also being met through a demand-driven process under the region’s Reimbursable Technical Assistance Program. These nonlending services, part of a long-standing technical assistance partnership with countries in the region not eligible for World Bank lending, have included work on diversification, human resource development, private sector development, and public sector reform, among others. Technical assistance has taken the form of technical and policy advice, capacity building, project design and implementation, and consensus building. While in most cases this work has been done on an ad hoc basis, there has been a shift toward a comprehensive and country-owned technical assistance framework. Saudi Arabia has a long-standing fixed program with the Bank, and Kuwait has just initiated its fixed
annual Technical Cooperation Program work as well. Here, the Bank is advising on the investment climate, employment generation, private sector participation, and infrastructure sector reform, among others.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Strengthening the climate for investment, jobs, and sustainable growth remains a major focus. Most countries in the Middle East and North Africa have made substantial progress in implementing macroeconomic policies to support the investment climate. But significant challenges remain on issues such as reducing excessive regulation and bureaucratic red tape; improving the tax, customs, and investor regimes; ensuring the efficient functioning of financial and labor markets; and widening access to high-quality and affordable infrastructure, particularly for small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
In Morocco an Investment Climate Assessment highlighted measures to encourage the growth and entry of new firms. In Tunisia a joint Bank-government program, Fonds d’Acces aux Marches d’Exportation (FAMEX), is providing assistance to private companies in areas such as export marketing. In 2001 alone the program attracted more than 100 new export firms. To support SME access to markets and information, the Bank recently launched an SME Exchange Program in Algeria (in addition to Morocco and Tunisia), linking chambers of commerce from both shores of the Mediterranean. Jordan currently is host to the most successful privatization program in the region, generating revenues so far of nearly 12 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), creating more than 6,000 jobs, and providing benefits to consumers in the form of declining telecommunications rates, shorter waits for telephone lines, and, in the transportation sector, higher numbers of available buses leading to higher levels of ridership. This is a partnership under which the World Bank Group manages a substantial trust fund for the U.S. Agency for International Development that supports the Jordan Privatization Program.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
During fiscal 2002 numerous World Bank-supported initiatives have contributed to the empowerment of poor and vulnerable people. Most prominent among these are the Social Fund Programs. In Algeria, in the worst of the bidonvilles (shantytowns in high-risk secu-
rity zones where no social services were provided), a program to develop 28 social services centers has brought the communities a large array of services, including psychological, psychiatric, and physical rehabilitation for victims of terrorism; outreach to school dropouts; parent health and education awareness programs; social rights information; immunizations; youth sports; and cultural programs.
In the Republic of Yemen and in Egypt, social funds are creating a culture of community participation by establishing effective partnerships and building capacity among local communities, government ministries, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Empowerment is embodied in community structures such as parent councils, health communities, and water-user associations. Subprojects encompass education and health services, innovative water-harvesting projects, environmental activities, microfinance, employment creation, and cultural heritage activities having a direct impact on tourism, with direct income going to communities. In the Republic of Yemen 4.6 million people have benefited directly, and about 1 million indirectly, from these activities. In Egypt, increasing girls’ enrollment in basic education is a major goal of Bank-supported education and social fund programs. Under the Egypt Education Enhancement Project (EEP), new schools were built in isolated, deprived communities, increasing enrollment and reducing overcrowding. The EEP also raised parental demand for girl’s education through more than 200 community awareness cam-
paigns, combined with support for more than 22,000 disadvantaged children. NGOs, community leaders (including women), and religious leaders are playing a key role in convincing parents to send their children, and especially their daughters, to school. The recent Health Support Project to the Republic of Yemen illustrates the Bank’s multipronged approach to health sector issues in the region. The project will strengthen health services delivery by providing a package of integrated maternal and child health services in eight districts serving close to 1.5 million Yemeni; it will enhance the public health program to combat endemic diseases such as malaria; and it will improve health system management for more effective allocation and efficient use of limited resources.
GLOBAL PRIORITIES
Communicable Diseases
In Egypt a Bank project has supported the expansion of the National Schistosomiasis Control Program (NSCP) and provided technical assistance to strengthen capacity in scientific research and public health programming. Today the NSCP covers the entire rural population of Egypt, about 35 million. In Morocco the Bank, under the Basic Health Project, has supported the Tuberculosis (TB) Control and Expanded Immunization Programs leading to increased capacity and decentralization. For TB, both case detection and therapeutic rates have reached 90 percent, with the treatment failure rate at less than I percent. Coverage rates for DPT3 (the final dose of diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus immunization) and measles vaccines in children less than 1 year old are 92 percent and 90 percent, respectively, with nonsignificant differentials between urban and rural areas. Under the same project the Bank supported the elaboration of Morocco’s national human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) action plan, which was validated by the government during a national workshop in the fall of 2001.
Countries in the Middle East and North Africa devote over 5 percent of their GDP to their health systems. Health outcomes, however, are often disappointing because health systems face serious organizational, quality, and efficiency problems. The Bank is assisting the countries through projects and advisory services focusing on broader systemic reforms in Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia.
Trade and Integration
Recognizing the slow pace of global integration in Middle East and North Africa countries, the Bank actively supports global integration through lending and nonlending services. Benefits of these programs are now observable in the field in Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia as customs procedures have become simpler. Under an Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan, Tunisian exporters have obtained reimbursements for tax credits in 30 days instead of up to six months. Jordanian authorities opened the Aqaba Special Economic Zone in May 2001, providing a “first world business environment” for enterprises, mainly export-oriented enterprises, to which the Bank contributed resources under an Economic Restructuring and Development Loan. Assisted in part by Bank technical expertise, Jordan has accelerated its privatization programs since January 2000 with Jordan Telecom, Air-
port Duty Free Shops, and the Jordan Flight Catering Company, bringing in foreign investment and resulting in clear benefits to customers. In Morocco the Bank’s Policy Reform Loan initiated a major customs reform under its public sector reform component. This has reduced the average wait for customs clearance from two days to less than one day.
International Financial Architecture
In fiscal 2002, Bank efforts to enhance the international financial infrastructure included Financial Sector Assessment Papers, under way in Morocco and completed in Tunisia; the Country Financial Accountability Assessment in Egypt; and accounting and auditing Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC), under way in Egypt and Morocco. In addition, a ROSC on corporate governance was completed in Morocco.




The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD] is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD’s main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries. IBRD's ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD’s objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD’s outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower.
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expense in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements of major currencies compared to IBRD’s reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Because IBRD matches the currencies
of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments in FY 2002 were $11.5 billion, which was higher than the FY 2001 level of $10.5 billion and the FY 2000 level of $10.9 billion.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management's practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and grants from net income to support developmental activities.
FY 2002 operating income was $1,924 million, $780 million higher than the preceding year. This increase in operating income correspondingly increased IBRD's return on equity and net return on average earning assets before the effects of FAS 133.a The major reason for the increase in operating income was a reduction in the provision for loan losses of $691 million, as arrears clearances from borrowers in the nonaccrual portfolio more than offset a further deterioration in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management—Country Credit Risk.
Loan interest income, investment income, and borrowing costs were all affected by the decrease in interest rates in FY 2002. Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased by $ 182 million due primarily to the interest rate repricing lag inherent in the cost pass-through loans and the decrease in the interest waiver rate on old loans. In contrast, investment income net of funding costs decreased by $108 million due primarily to lower mark-to-market gains in the investment portfolio in FY 2002 as compared to FY
2001.	Borrowings funding these investments are not marked to market.
a. For the purposes of this document, FAS 133 refers to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its related amendments, and International Accounting Standard No. 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. These standards were adopted by IBRD in FY 2001.
On August 8, 2002, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $1,291 million of FY 2002 net income to the General Reserves, and recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the transfers of $540 million from unallocated net income to other development purposes. In addition, the Executive Directors approved that for FY 2003, the interest waiver will be maintained at 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans. Waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges for FY 2003 were also maintained at the FY 2002 level.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America and International Accounting Standards (together referred to in this document as the ‘reported basis’).
As allowed by FAS 133, IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognized immediately in earnings.
Although FAS 133 allows hedge accounting for certain qualifying hedging3 relationships, when these criteria are applied to IBRD's financial instrument portfolios, certain of the hedged instruments would be carried at fair value, while other similar hedged instruments would be carried at amortized cost. Upon adoption of the new standards, IBRD elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
Management Reporting
For management reporting purposes, IBRD prepares current value financial statements.
a. Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in the value or cash flow of a financial instrument.
In implementing its risk management strategy, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives to manage the interest rate and currency risks associated with its financial assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/liability management of individual positions and portfolios, and to reduce borrowing costs.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more acute than for many other financial institutions. FAS 133 adjustments may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation better reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The basis for the current value model is the present value of expected cash flows based on an appropriate discount rate. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole.
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD’s estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering interest rate, currency and credit risks. The current year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statements of Income, with a reconciliation to the reported basis at June 30, 2002, are presented in Table 2.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD. The current value amount of loans incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.	.
The current value of all loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the applicable market yield curves for IBRD's funding cost, plus IBRD’s lending spread, adjusted for interest waivers.
The current value also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan’s contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
The $4,865 million ($4,196 million—June 30,2001) positive adjustment to IBRD's loan balance from the reported basis to the current value basis reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the present discount rate, which represents
the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on market quotations; instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowings Portfolio
The current value of borrowings includes the value of the debt securities and the financial derivative instruments associated with the borrowings portfolio. The current value is calculated based on market data using market-based methodologies. The current value of IBRD's instruments in this portfolio is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques. The $3,499 million ($3,397 million—June 30, 2001) increase in the borrowings portfolio due to current value adjustments results from the fact that the average cost of the borrowings portfolio is higher than the rate at which IBRD could currently obtain funding.
Current Value Comprehensive Statements of Income Current Value Adjustments
The net current value adjustment of $881 million for the year ended June 30, 2002 ($367 million—June 30, 2001) represents the change in the current value of all of IBRD's financial instruments during the fiscal year. The current
value adjustment reflects changes in both interest rates and currency exchange rates. For the year ended June 30, 2001, the current value adjustment included a transition adjustment of $116 million, which was the cumulative effect of the adoption of the current value basis of accounting on July 1, 2000.
During the year ended June 30, 2002, the net increase in the current value adjustments on the balance sheet was $567 million. This increase is the result of a $669 million increase in the mark to current value on the loan portfolio, offset by a $102 million increase in the mark to current value on borrowings.
For purposes of the current value presentation, all unrealized gains and losses are presented as current value adjustments. Therefore, the change in the mark-to-market unrealized losses on the investments of $48 million as well as a reduction in the provision for loan losses of $15 million are presented as part of the adjustment related to current value.
The increase in the current value adjustment from FY
2001	to FY 2002, after taking into consideration the $116 million transition adjustment, is due primarily to changes in exchange rates. During FY 2002, both the Japanese yen and the euro appreciated against the U.S. dollar. In contrast, both of these currencies depreciated against the U.S. dollar in FY 2001. This resulted in a positive change of $847 million due to the currency translation adjustments.
This increase was offset by a $ 118 million decrease in the total current value adjustment related to the net change in the mark on the loan and borrowings portfolios. This decrease was due, in part, to the smaller decline in U.S. dollar interest rates in FY 2002 than in FY 2001 (see Figure 1).
Figure 1: U.S Dollar Interest Rates
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2002, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $325,333 million to borrowers in 129 countries. A summary of cumulative lending and the portfolio position is contained in Table 4.
a.	Net of cancellations.
b.	Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of receipt.
c.	Includes loans approved, but not effective.
The amount of loans outstanding at June 30, 2002 was $2,723 million higher than that at June 30,2001 due primarily to positive currency translation adjustments and the capitalization of interest and charges related to certain consolidation loans. This increase was partially offset by negative net disbursements. The undisbursed balance was reduced by cancellations and disbursements, partially offset by new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments.
During FY 2002, commitments of new loans to member countries were $11,452 million, which was higher than commitments of $10,487 million in FY 2001, and $10,919 million in FY 2000.
In FY 2002, Europe and Central Asia accounted for the largest share of commitments. Figure 2 presents the regional composition of commitments for FY 2002 and FY 2001.
@FY2002	qFY	2001
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2002, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated loan loss provision) totaled $117,984 million, equal to 56% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 2. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing a loan often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptions, each loan must be approved by IBRD's Executive Directors (See Box 3, Adaptable Program Loans and Learning and Innovation Loans).
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. After completion, an independent IBRD unit evaluates the extent to which they
have met their major objectives, and these evaluations are reported directly to the Executive Directors.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or adjustment lending. In the past, the majority of IBRD loans were for investment projects or programs. Figure 3 presents IBRD lending by category for the last seven fiscal years, as a percentage of total loans approved.
Current operating guidelines state that combined IBRD and International Development Association (IDA) adjustment lending, excluding debt and debt-service reduction loans, will normally not exceed 25% of total IBRD and IDA lending on a 3-year rolling average basis. This guideline was established in 1992 as a pragmatic step based on the share of adjustment lending at that time, recognizing that the 25% threshold level may be exceeded if world economic conditions worsened. It is not a rigid limit.
Figure 3: IBRD Lending Commitments
In FY 2002, new IBRD adjustment commitments accounted for 64% of total commitments (38%—FY 2001; 41%—FY 2000). This was about the same as in FY 1999 at the time of the East Asia crisis. For IBRD and IDA together, the share of adjustment lending was 50% in FY 2002. Country-specific developments and adverse market conditions were the main reasons for this trend. The Executive Directors are aware that the guideline has been exceeded in recent years, and may possibly be exceeded again in subsequent years.
Investment Lending
IBRD has several lending instruments that support investment activities, either discrete projects or programs of investment. Investment lending committed for FY 2002 totaled $4,068 million ($6,550 million— FY 2001; $6,493 million—FY 2000). Box 3 presents a description of each investment lending instrument and a breakdown of IBRD’s investment lending approved in FY 2002 and in each of the two preceding fiscal years.
Box 2: Lending Operations Principles
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness.
M In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country's economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)	IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)	The use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency.
Adjustment Lending
IBRD also makes adjustment loans designed to support the introduction of basic changes in economic, financial and other policies of key importance for the economic development of member countries. Disbursements on these loans are conditioned on certain performance objectives. Adjustment lending committed for FY 2002 totaled $7,383 million ($3,937 million—FY 2001; $4,426 million—FY 2000.) Box 4 provides a description of each adjustment lending instrument and the details of IBRD’s adjustment lending approved in FY 2002 and each of the two preceding fiscal years.
Enclave Lending
On rare occasions, IBRD will lend for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30, 2002, IBRD had $192 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects ($166 million—June 30, 2001). No new enclave lending was approved during FY 2002 or FY 2001.
Financial Terms of Loans Currently Available Financial Terms
As of June 30, 2002, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the
currency chosen by the borrower: variable-spread loans and fixed-spread loans. Variable-spread loans have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan. In addition, IBRD offers to its clients two types of non-standard loans (special structural and sector adjustment loans, and loans with a deferred drawdown option) and derivative products. The current product mix is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibil-' ity to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capability. At June 30, 2002 36% (29%— June 30, 2001) of loans outstanding carried currently available financial terms.
Variable-Spread Loans
IBRD offers variable-spread loans in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, euro, and other currencies which IBRD can efficiently intermediate. Variable-spread loans carry a lending rate that is reset semi-annually. The lending rate consists of a base rate, which is six-month LIBOR for the applicable currency plus a variable spread. The spread consists of: (a) IBRD’s weighted average cost margin for funding for the preceding semester allocated to these loans relative to LIBOR; and (b) IBRD’s standard lending spread. This spread is set semi-annually, in January and July. Most variable spread loans mature over a period that ranges from 15 to 20 years and carry a 3- to 5-year grace period for principal.
Fixed-Spread Loans
During the first quarter of FY 2000, IBRD introduced the fixed-spread loan, designed in response to borrowers’ desires for more flexible financial products. Fixed-spread loans can be tailored to meet the needs of individual projects and programs and support borrowers’ debt management strategies. Fixed-spread loans are currently offered in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and euro and any other currency in which IBRD can efficiently intermediate.
These fixed-spread loans carry an interest rate of six-month LIBOR for the applicable currency, plus a spread that is fixed at loan signing for the life of the loan. The fixed spread consists of (a) IBRD’s projected funding cost margin relative to U.S. dollar LIBOR, with a basis swap adjustment for non-U.S. dollar loans; (bj a market risk premium; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread.
Borrowers selecting this product may change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan and have more flexibility in selecting loan repayment terms. A borrower may choose to include the following conversion features in the loan contract:
•	option to change the currency at market rates of all or a part of the undisbursed or disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
•	option to fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for rate fixings for up to the full maturity of the loan, and for amounts up to the outstanding loan amount (without charge);
•	option to unfix or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or part of disbursed loan amounts (for a fee);
•	option to cap or collar the floating interest rate on all or a part of disbursed loan amounts, with a market premium (for a fee).
Any conversion requests accepted by IBRD will be executed at market rates.
Transaction fees range from 12.5 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Repayment terms are more flexible than for prior products, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a bullet repayment or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans
Special structural and sector adjustment loans were introduced in FY 1999 and tailored to be part of a broad financial support package for borrowing countries. Their terms include a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a minimum fixed spread, currently set at 400 basis points. These loans have a
five-year maturity with a three-year grace period on principal, and a front-end fee of one percent of the principal amount payable on effectiveness. Special structural and sector adjustment loans are not eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option
During the second quarter of FY 2002, IBRD approved a Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD adjustment loans. A DDO would give IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for most IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee of 100 basis points, which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed. At June 30, 2002, no loans with a DDO had been approved by IBRD.
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product with its various risk management alternatives such as rate fixing and currency conversion, the Executive Directors also approved the offer of new derivative products for its borrowers to respond to their needs for access to better risk management tools in connection with existing IBRD loans. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars. On a case-by-case basis, commodity-linked swaps may also be considered.
IBRD will pass through the market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features (and 37.5 basis points for commodity swaps). These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. IBRD is in the process of making these instruments available.
Previously Available Financial Terms
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other financial terms including: multicurrency pool loans, fixed-rate single currency loans, and non-standard single currency loans (prior to the introduction of special structural and sector adjustment loans).
At June 30, 2002, 64% (71%—June 30, 2001) of loans outstanding carried these previously available financial terms.
Multicurrency Pool Loans
Multicurrency pool loans were available from 1980 to
2001.	Loans negotiated prior to July 1982 were offered at fixed rates. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
For variable-rate multicurrency pool loans, the lending rate is adjusted every six months to reflect the previous semester's average cost of outstanding borrowings allocated to fund these loans, weighted by the average
Specific Investment Loans fund the creation, rehabilitation and maintenance of economic, social and institutional infrastructure.
Adaptable Program Loans provide phased support for longterm development programs through a series of operations. Succeeding operations are committed on the basis of satisfactory performance on agreed milestones, indicators, periodic reviews, and the evaluation of implementation progress and emerging needs. Authority for approval of subsequent adaptable program loans under programs approved by the Executive Directors is with IBRD’s management, subject to oversight and review by the Executive Directors.
Emergency Recovery Loans restore assets and productivity immediately after a major emergency (such as war, civil disturbance, or natural disaster) that seriously disrupts a member country’s economy.
Sector Investment and Maintenance Loans aim to bring sector expenditures, policies and performance in line with a country’s development priorities.
Technical Assistance Loans are used to build institutional capacity in the borrowing country. They are used to build capacity in entities concerned with promoting economic and social development, as well as public sector reform.
Learning and Innovation Loans support small, pilot-type investment and capacity-building projects that, if successful, could lead to larger projects that would mainstream the learning and results of the loan. These loans do not exceed $5 million and are normally implemented over two to three years. Approvals of specific individual loans are at the management level rather than at the Executive Director level.
Financial Intermediary Loans provide long-term resources to local financial institutions, helping to develop sound financial sector policies and institutions, promoting the operational efficiency of those institutions, and improving the terms of credit available to enterprises and households. No loans of this type were committed during FY 2002 or FY 2001.
800
Structural Adjustment Loans support specific policy changes and institutional reforms. These loans require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and policy actions that can be monitored on a specific schedule.
Sector Adjustment Loans support comprehensive policy changes and institutional reforms in major sectors. They also require agreement on a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and its implementation, and a specific program that can be monitored.
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans support governmental programs of structural and social reforms that involve continuous, incremental policy changes and institution building through a series of loans. These loans rely on a solid foundation of completed or parallel analytic and advisory work in related areas.
Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans are fast-disbursing loans which provide support to countries facing a sectoral or economy-wide crisis with a substantial structural dimension. No loans of this type were committed during FY 2001.
Debt Reduction Loans help eligible, highly-indebted member countries reduce commercial debt and debt service to a manageable level as part of a medium-term financing plan. IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 20002002.
Rehabilitation Loans support government policy reform programs to assist the private sector where foreign exchange is required for urgent rehabilitation of key infrastructure and productive facilities. IBRD did not make any commitments of this type during FY 2000-2002.
currency composition of the pool. IBRD adds its lending spread to that average cost.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
Single Currency Pool Loans
During FY 1997, IBRD offered borrowers the option to elect to modify their currency choice by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans. Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to
Table 5: Portfolio by Loan Product
In millions of U.S. dollars
single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
Fixed-rate Single Currency Loans
A fixed-rate single currency loan product was available from 1995 to 1999. Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fixed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans. The fixed lending rate consists of a base rate, which reflects market interest rates for the applicable currency on the rate-fixing date for the equivalent loan maturity, plus a spread. The spread consists of: (a) IBRD’s funding cost margin relative to the base rate for these loans; (b) a risk premium to compensate IBRD for market risks it incurs in funding these loans; and (c) IBRD’s standard lending spread.
Non-standard Loans
In response to the global financial crises during FY 1998 and FY 1999, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard single currency loan terms. These loans carry a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee. None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges. These loans were issued prior to the introduction of special structural and sector adjustment loans discussed previously.
Table 5 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
IBRD Standard Loan Charges and Waivers
For most loans in its portfolio, IBRD charges a lending rate composed of its average cost of borrowings plus a spread. Until July 31, 1998, that spread was 50 basis points. However, during FY 1999 the lending spread was increased to 75 basis points for new loans. Also, a front-end fee of 100 basis points, payable for each such loan at the time it becomes effective, was introduced. In addition, most loans carry a commitment charge of 75 basis points on undisbursed amounts. However, the fixed-spread loans carry a commitment charge of 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points thereafter to compensate IBRD for additional funding and refinancing risk associated with this product.
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect for each of the previous eleven fiscal years. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment
charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect for each of the last thirteen fiscal years. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their loans (except special structural and sector adjustment loans and other non-standard loans]. Table 6 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Table 6: Loan Charge Waivers Basis points
Guarantees
IBRD offers the three basic types of guarantees described in Box 5. These guarantees are generally offered on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project, evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans. IBRD has also provided guarantees of securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks, generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. Guarantees are priced within a limited range to reflect the risks involved, and preparation fees may be charged where there are exceptional costs involved for IBRD. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
In exceptional cases, IBRD may offer enclave guarantees for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. These partial risk guarantees for export-oriented projects will be provided only if the project is expected to generate foreign exchange outside the country and IBRD determines that the country will have adequate foreign exchange to meet its obligations under the counter-guarantee if the guarantee is called. A project covered by an enclave guarantee includes security arrangements with appropriate risk mitigation measures, such as offshore revenue escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD, to minimize IBRD’s exposure and the risk of a call on the guarantee. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for non-enclave guarantees. The commitment of enclave guarantees is initially limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30, 2002 no enclave guarantees were outstanding.
IBRD's exposure at June 30, 2002 on its guarantees (measured as their present value in terms of their first call date) are detailed in Table 7. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note C.
Table 7: Guarantee Exposure
of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD—through the World Bank Institute and its partners—provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note I.
Investment Management: IBRD has leveraged its treasury management knowledge, expertise, and infrastructure to provide investment management services to several external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One of the objectives of providing these services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note I.
4. LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps,
asset-backed securities, and futures and options contracts pertaining to such obligations.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD's activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintains a $400 million line of credit with an independent financial institution. This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. For further details about this facility, see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings should be kept at or above a specified prudential minimum. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2003 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $18 billion, representing a $2.1 billion decrease from that set for FY 2002. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Liquid assets are held in three distinct sub-portfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles, funding, structures and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
Box 5: Guarantee Instruments
•	Partial risk guarantees cover debt-service defaults on a loan that may result from nonperformance of government obligations. These are defined in the contracts negotiated between the government or a government-sponsored entity and the private company responsible for implementing the project. The IBRD guarantee is limited to backing the government’s obligations; the obligations of the private company contained in the project agreements are not covered and thus the private lenders assume the risk of nonperformance by the private company.
•	Partial credit guarantees are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its instrumentalities. This approach may be most appropriate when the lenders are not willing to accept the sovereign risk of the host government for a term long enough to meet the needs of the project. By guaranteeing later maturities, such partial credit guarantees help induce the market to extend the term to the maximum risk it can bear.
•	Policy-based guarantees are partial credit guarantees that cover a portion of debt-service on a borrowing by an eligible member country from private foreign creditors in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms. These guarantees are an extension of partial credit guarantees for projects. The guaranteed portion of the debt-service could consist of a combination of interest and principal payments, but the actual structure is determined on a case-by-case basis. Eligibility for IBRD adjustment lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for this type of instrument. The terms of this instrument are the same as project-based partial credit guarantees. Maturity and level of fees will be standard if the guarantee is made in situations comparable to those under which a structural adjustment loan would be made; however, if the guarantee is made in connection with a special structural adjustment loan, then it will be at special structural adjustment loan equivalent terms. This guarantee product was launched in FY 1999. Initially, IBRD is proceeding with a pilot program of up to $2,000 million. As of June 30, 2002, $409 million had been approved. Once the $2,000 million level is reached, the Executive Directors will review the program.
The discretionary portfolio provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities. The discretionary portfolio was gradually liquidated over the first half of FY 2000 and was not used during FY 2001 or FY 2002. Figure 4 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2002 and FY 2001, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY 2002, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $24,886 million, an increase of $705 million from FY 2001. Of this amount, $1.3 billion of assets in the stable portfolio were managed by external firms. This portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars.
The performance of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2002 compared to FY 2001 is presented in Table 8. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
Table 8: Liquid Asset Portfolio Performance
Financial Return (%)
FY2002	FY2001
The lower returns in FY 2002 are due primarily to the lower interest rate environment in FY 2002 as compared to FY 2001.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES
Equity
Total shareholders' equity, as reported in IBRD’s balance sheet at June 30, 2002, was $32,313 million compared with $29,570 million at June 30, 2001. The increase from FY 2002 primarily reflects the increase in retained earnings.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb plausible risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 9 presents the composition of this measure of equity at June 30, 2002 and 2001.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management—Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
As presented in Figure 5, IBRD has maintained a relatively stable equity-to-loans ratio on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
Figure 5: Equity-to-Loans Ratio
This ratio rose slightly to 22.90% at June 30, 2002, from 21.51% one year earlier. In accordance with the financial policy defining this ratio, the amount of
transfer to general reserves of $1,291 million approved on August 8, 2002 was included in this ratio at June 30, 2002 ($618 million—June 30, 2001).
Capital
The authorized capital of IBRD at June 30, 2002 was $190,811 million, of which $189,505 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,476 million had been paid in and $178,029 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $8,240 million was available for lending and $3,236 million was not available for lending. The terms of payment of IBRD’s capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors are as follows:
(i)	$2,611 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,865 million of IBRD’s capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be loaned
only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,201 million of this amount was being used in IBRD's lending operations at June 30, 2002. In February 2002, the Board of Executive Directors endorsed three new options to increase the usability of the national currency portion of the members’ paid-in capital within the parameters set out in the Articles and Resolutions of the Board of Governors referred to above. These options are:
•	IBRD may invest a member's currency in appropriate assets denominated in that member's currency;
•	IBRD may swap a member's currency into other currencies for investment or for making loans; and
•	IBRD may use a member's currency for local currency lending to that member, either directly or through loans to IFC.
All of these new options require the consent of the member whose currency is involved. As of June 30, 2002, no member's currency has been used for any of these new options.
(iii)	$151,604 million of IBRD’s capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(iv)	$26,425 million of IBRD’s capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes.
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may .
be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2002, $103,604 million (58%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount was equal to 93.2% of IBRD’s outstanding borrowings after swaps at June 30,
2002.	Table 10 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
Table 10: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
In millions of U.S. dollars
Total Capital	Uncalled Portion
Member Country0 Subscription	of Subscription
a.	See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2002 in Financial Statements-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder.
Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any por-
tion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note A.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
Funding Operations
In FY 2002, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $22,050 million compared to $17,033 million in FY
2001.	Table 11 summarizes IBRD’s funding operations for FY 2002 and FY 2001. Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD's general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of future lending activities. The increase in funding in FY 2002 was primarily attributable to the replacement of both maturing issues and issues called. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD's operations. Debt is allocated on a-periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines. In FY 2002, IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, composed of cost-effective private placements, largely pre-sold institutional public issues and retail targeted transactions.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or meet other operational needs. In response to market conditions, during FY 2002, IBRD repur-
chased $756 million and called $3,323 million of its outstanding borrowings.
Use of Derivatives
IBRD engages in a combination of interest rate and currency swaps to convert direct borrowings into a desired interest rate structure and currency composition as shown in Figures 6a and 6b for FY 2002. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/ liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans.
Figure 6a: Effect of Swaps on Interest Rate Structures Borrowings excluding swaps
Floating
In FY 2002, the majority of new funding continued to be initially swapped into floating rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with funding requirements.
Composition of Borrowings
Of the borrowings outstanding after swaps at June 30,
2002,	63% was at variable rates (56% at June 30, 2001). The currency composition continues to be concentrated in U.S. dollars, with its share at the end of June 30, 2002 at 83% of the borrowings portfolio, after swaps (84% at June 30, 2001). This reflects IBRD borrowers' preference for U.S. dollar-denominated loans and the corresponding currency composition of the liquid asset portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of financial risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operating risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes an Asset/Liability Management Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. This committee makes recommendations in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Two subcommittees that report to the Asset/Liability Management Committee are the Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee and the Credit Risk Subcommittee. The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include establishing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of credit risk and reviews the impact on the loan loss provision of any changes in risk ratings or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Country Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units and reports to IBRD's senior management. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditwor-
thiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for loan losses, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term. The Chief Credit Officer represents IBRD's Chief Financial Officer on the Operations Committee, which reviews IBRD's Country Assistance Strategies and selected planned adjustment loans.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from IBRD's business units. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Asset/Liability Management Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
IBRD assesses its risk-bearing capacity using a variety of metrics, including a stress test and an equity-to-loans ratio, to measure its income generating capacity and capital adequacy.
The stress test measures the level of loan growth which could be supported by IBRD in the wake of a significant credit shock, without further deterioration in IBRD’s capital position. The nonaccrual event used in the stress test is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at a 95% confidence level.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD’s financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements
arising from market risks. To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 5 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD has maintained a relatively stable equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
IBRD’s Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD’s overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for loan losses, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for loan losses, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
The credit quality of the nonaccrual portfolio improved in FY 2002, but there was a further deterioration in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio. The Republic of Congo and Cote d'Ivoire cleared all overdue payments to IBRD, and all loans to these borrowers were restored to accrual status. In addition, as an exception to IBRD practice, all overdues of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were cleared through consolidation loans. The loan loss provision for FY
2002	also reflects the clearance of all overdue payments from the Democratic Republic of Congo on July 3, 2002 and from the Syrian Arab Republic on July 1, 2002.
In the case of Republic of Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the clearance of arrears was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day that arrears of the respective countries were cleared, IDA disbursed development credits to those countries in support of the authorities' economic reform and poverty reduction program. Some or all of the proceeds of these development credits were used to repay the bridge financing. The development credits were funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. Taking developments in both the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios into account, the provisioning requirements were reduced by $15 million in FY 2002. However, without the impact of the significant events in the nonaccrual portfolio noted above, provisioning requirements would have increased considerably in FY 2002. All loans to Bosnia and Herzegovina were also restored to accrual status in FY 2002.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed through a single borrower exposure limit. According to an approach approved by the Executive Directors in 1997, the single borrower exposure limit is set at the lower of an equitable access limit and a concentration risk limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus, and the concentration limit is estimated by stress testing IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital (taking into account not only current exposure - loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees - but also projected exposure over the ensuing three- to five-year period). The single borrower exposure limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD’s reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY
2003,	the concentration risk limit is $13.5 billion, unchanged from FY 2002. The equitable access limit is $21.0 billion. As depicted in Figure 7, IBRD’s largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.9 billion at June 30, 2002.
Figure 7:
Top Eight Country Exposures at June 30, 2002
(in billions of U.S.dollars)
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans It is IBRD’s policy that if a payment of principal, interest or other charges on an IBRD loan or IDA credit becomes 30 days overdue, no new loans to that member country, or to any other borrower in that country, will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval, nor will any previously approved loan be signed, until payment for all amounts 30 days overdue or longer has been received. In addition, if such pay-
ment becomes 60 days overdue, disbursements on all loans to or guaranteed by that member country are suspended until all overdue amounts have been paid. Where the member country is not the borrower, the time period for suspension of the approval and signing of new loans to or guaranteed by the member country is 45 days and the time period for suspension of disbursements is 60 days. It is the policy of IBRD to place all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD in nonaccrual status, if principal, interest or other charges on any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for loan losses is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. Under this policy, IBRD will develop a lending strategy and will process loans, but not sign or disburse such loans, during a preclearance performance period with respect to members that: (a) agree to and implement a medium-term, growth-oriented structural adjustment program endorsed by IBRD; (b) undertake a stabilization program, if necessary, endorsed, or financially supported, by the International Monetary Fund; (c) agree to a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors in the context of a medium-term structural adjustment program; and (d) make debt-service payments as they fall due on IBRD loans during the performance period. The signing, effectiveness and disbursement of such loans will not take place until the member’s arrears to IBRD have been fully cleared.
On May 8, 2001, based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan, and followed with respect to Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996, IBRD’s Executive Directors authorized IBRD to enter into an agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) with respect to a plan for the clearance of arrears under loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for which FRY has accepted liability. Under the arrears clearance plan, FRY’s principal and interest arrears were consolidated into six new IBRD loans in January
2002.	See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note C for additional information.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. IBRD’s treatment of FRY is an exception to that practice, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. These
criteria limited eligibility for such treatment to a country: that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; that because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and for which a rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
Commercial Credit Risk
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD’s funding, investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-mar-
ket is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the "net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD’s exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note F.
Table 12 provides details of IBRD’s estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps, net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The increase in the proportion of AAA and A rated investments, compared to the prior year, is mainly due to the increase of investments in obligations of AAA rated agencies and official entities, and the downgrading of Japanese government securities during FY 2002. After the effects of netting arrangements, the swap credit exposure of $1,534 million is offset by collateral of $756 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $778 million.
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD’s exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD’s portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each product at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate
Table 12: Credit Exposure by Counterparty Rating
In millions of U.S. dollars
sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product in accordance with the particular requirements for that product and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the asset/liability management process.
Table 13 details the current value information of each loan product, the liquid asset portfolio, and the debt allocated to fund these assets.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two potential sources of interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost passthrough loans currently account for approximately 71% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (74% at the end of FY 2001). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread single currency loans, pose some residual interest rate risk, given the six month lag inherent in the lending rate calculation. Since pool loan terms are no longer available for new commitments, this risk will diminish as the existing loans mature.
Contractual yield is presented before the application of interest waivers.
Excludes fixed-rate single currency pool loans, which have been classified in other fixed-rate loans.
Includes fixed-rate single currency loans for which the rate had not yet been fixed at fiscal year-end.
Includes Special Structural and Sector Adjustment Loans.
Carrying amounts and contractual yields are on a basis which includes accrued interest and any unamortized amounts, but does not include the effects of applying FAS 133.
The liquid asset portfolio is carried and reported at market value and excludes investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits.
Includes amounts not yet allocated at June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001.
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f. g-
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD's new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool after FY 2010. The debt which funds these loans have maturities that extend beyond those of the loans and presents a risk of loss to IBRD because this debt carries fixed interest rates. Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately
$5.4 billion in FY 2015. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the rate fixity of the over-funded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond 2010 through the use of forward starting swaps. IBRD has begun executing these swaps and to date has paid $105 million since FY 2000. IBRD expects these forward starting swaps to be transacted in a phased manner over the next three years. The present value of the remaining over-funded portion of the above market debt is approximately $277 million as of June 30,
2002.	The loss attributable to the combined position will be passed as a rate adjustment to the multicurrency pool loans.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 29% of the existing loan portfolio (26% at the end of FY 2001), is managed by
using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of non-cost pass-though products will grow. The interest rate risk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Because equity funds a portion of outstanding loans, IBRD’s level of operating income is sensitive to movements in the level of nominal interest rates. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has developed a framework to analyze and assess the mismatch risk and, during FY 2002, IBRD executed some overlay interest rate swaps to reduce this mismatch risk.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of market rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb potential losses from arrears regardless of the market environment.
Figure 8 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2002 and FY 2001.
Operating Risk
Operating risk is the potential for loss arising from internal activities or external events caused by breakdowns in information, communication, physical safeguards, business continuity, supervision, transaction
processing, settlement systems and procedures and the execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operating risks. IBRD attempts to mitigate operating risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep operating risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. In the past, IBRD has suffered certain minor financial losses from operating risk and while it maintains an adequate system of internal controls, there can be no absolute assurance that IBRD will not suffer such losses in the future.
IBRD uses the COSO3 control framework and a selfassessment methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, and it has an on-going program in place to assess all major business units. IBRD obtains an attestation report from its external auditors that IBRD’s assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting meets the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO, is fairly stated in all material respects.
Economic and Monetary Union in Europe
Since January 1, 1999, in the normal course of business as a multicurrency organization, IBRD has been conducting euro-denominated transactions in paying and receiving, investments, bond issuance, loan disbursements, loan billing and new lending commitments.
IBRD adopted a gradual approach to redenominate national currency unit balance sheet items and IBRD-administered donor trust funds to euro during the transition period, before their automatic conversion to euro on January 1, 2002.
As of June 30, 2001, the accounting records for the investments and borrowings portfolios had been redenominated. All remaining accounting records were redenominated as of January 1, 2002.
a. In 1992, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD's accumulated provision for loan losses reflects probable losses in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for loan losses on a borrower-by-borrower basis for both the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios at the balance sheet date. The appropriate level of provisions for each borrower is estimated as the sum product of its expected default frequency (or probability of default to IBRD), its loans outstanding (plus the present value of guarantees), and the assumed severity of loss given default.
Judgments on borrowers' expected default frequencies and severities are based on many factors such as assessments of borrowers' past and prospective economic performance and economic policy framework. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for loan losses accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD’s total loans. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for loan losses are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for loan losses.
Additional information on IBRD’s loan loss provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, and Note C.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, IBRD carries its investments and derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, on a fair value basis. When possible, fair value is determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair value is based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and
IBRD's financial position as reported in the balance sheet.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters; ensuring that models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
To a large extent, the change in IBRD’s net income was affected by changes in the credit standing of borrowing countries and the interest rate environment.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2002, interest rates for most currencies were significantly lower than those in FY 2001. In addition, interest rates declined in both years. The U.S. dollar short-term interest rates (six-month LIBOR) depicted in Figure 9 illustrate these trends.
Figure 9: LIBOR Interest Rates - U.S. Dollar
Operating Income
IBRD’s operating income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses. Table 14 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs.
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
FY 2002 operating income was $1,924 million, $780 million higher than in FY 2001. The majority of this increase was due to a reduction in the provision for loan loss expense of $691 million, as arrears clearances from borrowers in the nonaccrual portfolio more than offset a further deterioration in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio. (See Notes to Financial Statements - Note C).
FY 2001 versus FY 2000
FY 2001 operating income was $1,144 million, $847 million lower than in FY 2000. The majority of this change was due to the increase of $842 million in the provision for loan loss expense. This increase in the provision reflects a reassessment of the probable losses inherent in the accruing portfolio. The factors that contributed to the increase in provisioning requirements were the movement of loans made to or guaranteed by two borrowers into nonaccrual status, and a net deterioration in the creditworthiness of the accrual portfolio.
Net Interest Income
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
•	Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased $182 million due primarily to the interest rate repricing lag inherent in the cost passthrough loans, and the decrease in the waiver rate on old loans. While interest rates in FY 2002 were significantly lower than those in FY 2001, as shown in figure 9, the decline was reflected more rapidly in the cost of borrowings than in the return on loans.
•	Investment income net of funding costs decreased by $108 million in FY 2002 due primarily to changes in U.S. dollar short-term interest rates. The average duration of the investment portfolio is about three months. In FY 2001, the mark-to-market gains on investments were higher than in FY 2002 due to the sharper decline in U.S. dollar interest; rates in the fourth quarter of FY 2001 as compared to the same period in FY 2002. Borrowings funding these investments are not marked to market.
•	Other loan income increased by $87 million due primarily to the interest income on loans to three countries which were restored to accrual status in FY 2002.
FY 2001 versus FY 2000
•	Loan interest income net of funding costs decreased by $69 million primarily due to the higher interest waiver rate on old loans in FY 2001.
•	Investment income, net of funding costs, increased by $24 million due primarily to changes in U.S. dollar short-term interest rates. The average duration of the investment portfolio is about three months. In FY 2001, mark-to-market gains on the investment portfolio were higher than those of FY 2000 because interest rates declined more during the fourth quarter of FY 2001 than in the same period of FY 2000. Borrowings funding these investments are not marked to market.
•	Other loan income decreased by $38 million due to the effects of loans to two countries being placed in nonaccrual status in FY 2001 as well as a reduction in commitment fee income.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 15.
FY 2002 versus FY 2001
Net noninterest expense increased by $72 million due primarily to a reduction in the actuarially determined amount of pension income in FY 2002. In addition, total gross administrative expenses were $24 million higher in FY 2002 than in FY 2001.
FY 2001 versus FY 2000
Net noninterest expense decreased by $78 million. Overall gross administrative expenses decreased by $49 million (see Notes to Financial Statements—Note H) due primarily to a decrease in the overall administrative expense budget, along with a slightly larger share of the total costs incurred being allocated to IDA, based on an agreed-upon cost sharing formula which considers certain operational volume indicators. The remaining decrease in net noninterest resulted primarily from an increase in service fee revenues.
FAS 133 Adjustments
As discussed earlier, IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to market. IBRD generally uses derivatives to modify fixed U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar borrowings to variable U.S. dollar borrowings. When IBRD borrows in minor currencies, it immediately swaps the borrowings into major currencies to take advantage of the arbitrage opportunities which may exist. During FY 2002, the effects of applying FAS 133 were $854 million compared to $345 million for FY 2001. This increase in the effects of applying FAS 133 was due primarily to a significant drop in the interest rates for certain minor currencies in FY 2002 as compared to FY 2001.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swaps: Cross-currency interest rate swaps are currency swaps where one set of cash flows reflects a fixed rate of interest and the other reflects a floating rate of interest.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with the FAS 133 adjustment) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for loan losses and deferred loan income.
Forward Interest Rate Swaps: A forward interest rate swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified date.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offer rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD’s Articles of
Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) maintains a system of internal control over external financial reporting, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the board of directors regarding the preparation of reliable published financial statements. The system contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified. Even an effective internal control system, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations - including the possibility of the circumvention or overriding of controls - and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to external financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, internal control system effectiveness may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control system as of June 30, 2002 in relation to criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control -Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, IBRD believes that, as of June 30, 2002, its system of internal control over external financial reporting met those criteria.
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying “Management’s Assertion Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting”, that, as of June 30, 2002, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in “Internal Control -Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management is responsible for maintaining effective control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was made in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over external financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of inherent limitations in any internal control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that, as of June 30, 2002, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission is fairly stated, in all material respects.
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2002 and 2001, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2002, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2002. These financial statements are the responsibility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as of June 30, 2002 and 2001, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Accounting Standards.
'ikloitfk
August 8, 2002
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and with International Accounting Standards. On August 8, 2002, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", along with its amendments, as well as International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, "Financial Instruments:	Recognition	and	Measurement".
These standards are collectively referred to as FAS 133 in this document. These standards require that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. In applying FAS 133 for purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in the fair value have been recognized in net income. While the derivatives in the borrowings portfolio require an adjustment under FAS 133, as do the Other Asset/Liability swaps, no adjustment is required to the investments portfolio since those derivative instruments are already recorded at fair value as part of the trading portfolio. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement, primarily by holding or lending the proceeds of its borrowings (after swaps) in the same currencies in which they are borrowed. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July
1,	1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the
par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the preexisting basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in Article
II,	Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR.
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies (see Note A), requiring (1) the member to make additional payments to IBRD in the event that the par value of its currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of its currency has, in the opinion of IBRD, depreciated to a significant extent in its territories and (2) IBRD to reimburse the member in the event that the par value of its currency is increased.
Since currencies no longer have par values, maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value' of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For amounts on loan, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.	•
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments—Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in
1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and the SRP’s accounting income. This Pension Reserve would be reduced if in any future fiscal year pension accounting expenses were to exceed the actual funding of the SRP.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133 from prior years. At June 30, 2002, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for fiscal year 2001, and the unrealized gains or losses on certain derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, for fiscal year 2001.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Commencing in 1950, a portion or all of the unallocated Net Income has been allocated to the General Reserve after an assessment by the Executive Directors of IBRD’s reserve needs. Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement.	'
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fees amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion.
In addition, during fiscal year 2001, the Executive Directors approved a financial assistance package for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in connection with its succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) in IBRD. One component of that package was a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which the FRY had accepted liability. Under the arrears clearance plan, FRY's principal and interest arrears were consolidated into six new consolidated loans.
IBRD’s treatment of FRY is based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments for interest and charges made according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. Such present value losses are considered in the determination of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. IBRD has not written off any of its outstanding loans.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-
case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
IBRD determines the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses based on an assessment of collectibility risk in the total loan and guarantees portfolio, including loans in nonaccrual status. The accumulated provision is periodically adjusted based on a review of the prevailing circumstances. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income. In the context of determining the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, IBRD considers the present value of expected cash flows relative to the contractual cash flows for loans.
Cash and Cash Equivalents: IBRD considers unrestricted cash, as well as financial instruments held in the investment portfolio as elements of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within ninety days.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, all investment securities were held in a Trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s Trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the Trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a proxy for cash securities. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
Borrowings: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues short-term and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30, 2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. The unamortized balance of the issuance costs is included in
Other Assets on the balance sheet, and the issuance costs amortization is presented as a separate element under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities to take advantage of cost saving opportunities across capital markets to mitigate risks as well as lower its funding costs. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement. Prior to the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, all derivatives were recorded on an historical cost basis using synthetic accounting; upon termination, the change in the derivative’s market value was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of the underlying borrowing and recognized as an adjustment of the borrowing cost over the remaining life of the borrowing. In instances where the underlying borrowing was prepaid, the change in the associated derivative’s market value was recognized immediately as an adjustment to the cost of the underlying borrowing instrument. However, upon adoption of FAS 133, these derivatives are carried at fair value.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD’s financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial
instruments are included in Note N. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD's financial instruments are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accounting and Reporting Developments:	In	April
2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145, "Recission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections" (SFAS No. 145). SFAS No. 145 requires gains and losses from extinguishments of debt to be classified as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria for such classification in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions" (APB No. 30). These provisions are effective January 1, 2003. Adoption of this standard will not have a significant impact on IBRD's financial statements.
NOTE A—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CUR-	2002, this transaction is not reflected in the balance
RENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND	sheet at that date.
MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares, of which 1,570,895 shares had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,476 million ($11,476 million— June 30, 2001) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,029 million ($178,029 million—June 30, 2001) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: Of the total amount of $641 million ($912 million—June 30, 2001) included in Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings, which has been deducted from equity, $195 million ($198 million—June 30, 2001) represents MOV receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned. The remaining $446 million ($714 million—June 30, 2001) represents net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan that become payable under the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Membership: On July 23, 2002, East Timor became a member of IBRD. On that date, East Timor subscribed for 517 shares with a par value of $62.4 million, of which $1.9 million was paid in and $60.5 million was subject to call. As this occurred subsequent to June 30,
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, forward contracts, currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps, options and short sales.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity with a minimum credit rating of AA. For asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures and options contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin.
For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount. IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2002, IBRD had received $1,833 million ($319 million—June 30, 2001) of securities under resale agreements.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the borrower incurs the underlying financial obligation and are called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. Outstanding guarantees of loan principal and interest of $1,584 million at June 30, 2002 ($1,605 million - June 30, 2001] were not included in reported loan balances. These amounts represent the maximum potential risk if the payments guaranteed for these entities are not made. At June 30, 2002, $473 million of these guarantees were subject to call ($484 million - June 30, 2001). As of June 30,
2002,	no guarantees provided by IBRD have been called.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2002, in addition to those loans referred to in the following paragraph, total principal, interest, and charges of less than $1 million was overdue by more
than three months. At June 30, 2002, the aggregate principal amounts outstanding on all loans to any borrower, other than those referred to in the following paragraph, with any loans overdue by more than three months, was $2 million.
At June 30, 2002, the loans made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $2,755 million ($2,832 million—June 30, 2001), of which principal of $336 million ($1,331 million—June 30, 2001) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue interest and other charges in respect of these loans totaled $313 million ($1,087 million—June 30, 2001). If these loans had not been in nonaccrual status, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, would have been higher by $34 million ($80 million—June 30, 2001, $52 million—June 30, 2000).
a.	Represents interest and charges overdue.
During fiscal year 1998, the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria) and IBRD entered into an agreement covering, among other things, the application of payments by Syria of its overdue principal, interest, and charges. Under this agreement, Syria paid the overdue principal to IBRD in one payment of $263 million on September
2,	1997 and has been making monthly payments to IBRD since then.
On July 1, 2002, Syria made its final payment under this agreement, clearing all of its overdue interest and charges with IBRD, and all IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by Syria, were restored to accrual status. As a result, income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003
will increase by $6 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status. This is in accordance with IBRD’s policy of recognizing income on a cash basis when a country is in nonaccrual status. This event was considered in determining the adequacy of the provision for loan losses at June 30, 2002.
In June 1996, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina were cleared through three new consolidation loans extended by IBRD. These new loans consolidated all outstanding principal and overdue interest on the loans assumed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. This resulted in
an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million and the deferral of the recognition of the related interest income. The net exposure to Bosnia and Herzegovina did not change as a result of this event.
In December 2001, Bosnia and Herzegovina commenced making principal repayments on these consolidation loans. In addition, during fiscal year 2002, IBRD began amortizing the related deferred loan income over the remaining lives of these loans.
As of June 30, 2002, all IBRD loans outstanding to Bosnia and Herzegovina were restored to accrual status following management's determination that a suitable period of payment performance had passed subsequent to the time of arrears clearance. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, income increased by $8 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status.
On January 8, 2002, the accumulated arrears on loans to FRY were cleared through six new consolidation loans extended by IBRD. These new loans consolidated all overdue interest and charges with FRY’s then outstanding loans. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $799 million and the deferral of the recognition of the related interest income. The net exposure to FRY has not changed as a result of this event. All of these consolidation loans are fixed-spread single currency loans, denominated in euro, and carry the current interest rate terms for this product, which, at the time of consolidation, was LIBOR plus a 55 basis point spread. They have a final maturity of thirty years, which includes a three-year grace period. The previous loans had final maturities ranging from January 1, 1992 to March 15, 2005 and a combined weighted-average interest rate of 5.5%.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, Cote d'Ivoire and the Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue service payments to IBRD, and all IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. These arrears clearances of $25 million for Cote d'Ivoire and $34 million for the Republic of Congo were accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day that arrears were cleared, IDA disbursed development credits to the respective country in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Some or all of the proceeds of these development credits were used to repay the bridge financing. The development credits were funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. As a result of these events, income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 increased by $40 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status.
On July 3, 2002, the Democratic Republic of Congo cleared all of its overdue service payments to IBRD, and all IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by, the Democratic Republic of Congo were restored to accrual status. This arrears clearance of $131 million was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an interna-
tional financial institution. On the same day, IDA disbursed a development credit to the Democratic Republic of Congo in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Part of the proceeds of this credit was used to repay the bridge financing. The development credit was funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. As a result of this event, income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 will be increased by $51 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status. This is in accordance with IBRD’s policy of recognizing income on a cash basis when a country is in nonaccrual status. This event was considered in determining the adequacy of the provision for loan losses at June 30, 2002.
The average recorded investment in nonaccruing loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, was $2,897 million ($2,424 million-—June 30, 2001, $2,057 million—June 30, 2000).
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, no loans came out of nonaccrual status.
Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest on its loans. However, IBRD suffers losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of expected payments for interest and charges according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the actual cash flows. Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have emerged from nonaccrual status after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. To recognize the probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for loan losses. Of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses of $4,078 million at June 30, 2002 ($3,959 million—June 30, 2001), $655 million is attributable to the nonaccruing loan portfolio ($1,090 million—June 30, 2001).
Changes to the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2000 are summarized below:
In fiscal year 2002, provisioning requirements were reduced by $15 million, as arrears clearances from bor-
rowers in the nonaccrual portfolio offset a further deterioration of the credit quality of the accrual portfolio. In contrast, loans to two borrowers were placed into nonaccrual status in fiscal year 2001.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels. IBRD has not entered into any commitments to provide debt relief under this initiative. However, IDA is expected under the HIPC debt initiative, to extend new credits to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. In determining the adequacy of the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses, IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into account.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA'S Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior
to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental development credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA. At June 30, 2002, IDA had approved development credits of $1,706 million ($1,679 million—June 30, 2001) under this program from inception, of which $1,690 million ($1,651 million—June 30, 2001) had been disbursed to the eligible countries.
NOTE D—BORROWINGS
Providing liquidity and minimizing the cost of funds are key objectives to IBRD's overall borrowing strategy. IBRD uses swaps in its borrowing strategy to lower the overall cost of its borrowings for those members who benefit from IBRD loans. IBRD undertakes swap transactions with a list of authorized counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty.
Line of credit: IBRD maintains a $400 million line of credit with an independent financial institution. This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit.
NOTE E—OTHER ASSET/LIABILITY SWAPS
As part of asset/liability management, IBRD has entered into a number of currency swaps to better align its currency composition of Equity with that of loans. A summary of IBRD’s other asset/liability swaps at June 30,
2002	and June 30, 2001 is presented below:
NOTE F—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using
IBRD’s own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD's continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. As of June 30, 2002, IBRD had received collateral of $764 million in connection with swap agreements. None of this collateral has been included in the assets of IBRD.
In addition, IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is eliminated only to the extent that financial liabilities to the same counterparty are settled after the assets are realized. Because the exposure is affected by each transaction subject to the arrangement, the extent of the reduction in exposure may change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The contract value/notional amounts and credit risk exposure, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives or collateral arrangements that have been entered into) are given below:
On August 2, 2001, the Executive Directors allocated $618 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2001 to the General Reserve and $155 million to the Pension Reserve, representing the difference between actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan and its accounting income for the fiscal year 2001. In addition, the Executive Directors allocated $345 million of fiscal year 2001 net income to a separate category of retained earnings—"Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments.”
On December 4, 2001, the Board of Governors approved the following transfers out of fiscal year 2001 unallocated net income: $302 million to IDA and $69 million to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative Trust Fund. In addition, the Board of Governors approved the transfer of $31 million to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund out of Surplus. Of the $302 million that was approved for transfer to IDA, $300 million is to be drawn down in fiscal year 2005 and the remaining $2 million was transferred in December 2001 as a reimbursement of IDA’s share of the balance of the fiscal year 2000 cost of implementing the Strategic Compact of IBRD and IDA.
The aggregate transfers and amounts payable for these Board of Govemors-approved transfers at June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001 are included in the following table:
NOTE H—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
Administrative Expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 are net of the share of administrative expenses charged to IDA of $654 million ($551 million—June 30, 2001, $549 million—June 30, 2000).
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
IBRD recovers certain of its administrative expenses by billing third parties for services rendered. These amounts are included in Other Income. For the fiscal
At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, the following pay-	pension and other postretirement benefits are included
ables (receivables) by IBRD to (from) its affiliated orga-	in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Mis-
nizations with regard to administrative services and	cellaneous Liabilities:
NOTE I—MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation,
global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/ or IDA, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD’s funds, nor are they included in the assets of IBRD. The trust fund assets by executing agent at June 30, 2002 and June 30,
2001	are summarized below:
The responsibilities of IBRD under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, IBRD received $11 million ($14 million—June 30, 2001 and $17 million— June 30, 2000) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income.
Investment Management Services
During fiscal year 2000, IBRD began offering investment management services to a non-affiliated institution. Under this arrangement, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of this institution, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolio.
During fiscal year 2002, IBRD began offering asset management and technical advisory services to Central Banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program. Under this program, IBRD is responsible for managing investment portfolios on behalf of these institutions, as well as providing training and technical assistance, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the percentage of assets under management.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities is included in service fee revenues described in Note H.
At June 30, 2002, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $5,319 million ($4,172 million—June 30, 2001). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE J—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD has a defined benefit Staff Retirement Plan (SRP), a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a PostEmployment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of its staff members as well as the staff of IFC and MIGA.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The PEBP provides pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
All costs associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees’ respective participation in the plans. In addition, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their share of any contributions made to these plans by IBRD.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June 30, 2001, and June 30, 2000:
The portion of the SRP income related to IBRD that has been included in income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 is $93 million ($155 million—June 30, 2001; $166 million—June 30, 2000). The balance has
been included as a payable to IDA. The portion of the cost for the RSBP and PEBP related to IBRD that has been included in administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 is $17 million ($7 million—
June 30, 2001; $10 million—June 30, 2000). The balance has been included as a receivable from IDA.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, net income from these plans of $31 million was allocated to IFC ($47 million—June 30, 2001, $45 million—June 30,
2000)	and $2 million was allocated to MIGA ($2 million—June 30, 2001, $2 million—June 30, 2000).
The following table summarizes the benefit obligations, plan assets, and funded status associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June 30, 2001, and June 30, 2000:
*	Less than $0.5 million.
The $1,895 million prepaid SRP cost at June 30, 2002 ($1,679 million—June 30, 2001) is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. Of this amount $938 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($815 million—June 30, 2001) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
The $195 million prepaid RSBP cost at June 30, 2002 ($197 million—June 30, 2001), is included in Miscellaneous Assets on the balance sheet. Of this amount $85 million was attributable to IDA, IFC, and MIGA ($86 million—June 30, 2001) and is included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations. Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the fiscal year, they exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service lives of the employee group. Where there are no active employees, the unrecognized net gain or loss is amortized over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants.
The weighted-average assumptions used in determining expense and benefit obligations for the fiscal years ended
June 30, 2002, June 30, 2001, and June 30, 2000 are as follows:
a.	The effect of projected compensation levels was calculated based on a scale that provides for a decreasing rate of salary increase
depending on age, beginning with 11.25% (11.50%—June 30, 2001; 12.25%—June 30, 2000) at age 20 and decreasing to 4.75% (5.00%—June 30, 2001; 5.75%—June 30, 2000) at age 64.
NOTE K—SEGMENT REPORTING
Based on an evaluation of IBRD's operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, given the nature of IBRD, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among borrowers that IBRD does not differentiate between the nature of the products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method for providing the services among individual countries.
For fiscal year 2002, loans to each of two countries generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income. Loan income from these two countries was $877 million and $752 million.
NOTE L—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the effects of the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
NOTE M—EFFECTS OF APPLYING FAS 133
On July 1, 2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. These standards require that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million, and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income. The allocation between net income and other comprehen-
sive income was based upon the cash flow hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133.
The following table reflects the components of the effects of applying FAS 133 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001.
The cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle includes the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the embedded derivatives and derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, in the borrowings portfolio on July 1, 2000, offset by any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to adoption.
Since IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard, the amount recorded in other comprehensive income is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from borrowers. This is reflected in the Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses
Swaps Receivable and Swaps Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value of swaps is based on market prices, where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date. (See Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies).
Borrowings
The fair value of borrowings is based on quoted market prices where such prices are available. Where no
quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated based on the cost at which IBRD could currendy undertake borrowings with similar terms and remaining maturities, using the secondary market yield curve.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities
These amounts are generally short-term in nature. Therefore, the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The difference between the carrying value and fair value of other assets is due to the carrying value of debt issuance costs being included in other assets while the fair value of these costs is included as part of the fair value of borrowings.
Guarantees
The fair value of guarantees is determined by discounting the guaranteed amount from the first respective call date.
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established on September
24,	1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes among member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Termination of the Interim Trust Fund
The Interim Trust Fund (ITF) was established by IDA's Board of Governors on June 26, 1996 as part of the Eleventh Replenishment, and became effective on November 14, 1996. The ITF was administered by IDA to help fund operations approved during the period July 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997, as well as certain operations approved after July 1, 1997.
The Executive Directors terminated the ITF on May
25,	2001. Upon termination, ITF credits became part of IDA’s regular lending portfolio, and all of ITF’s assets and liabilities were transferred to IDA. IDA’s activity for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 has been restated to include the results of the terminated Interim Trust Fund.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Accounting
Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below. On August 8, 2002, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Replenishments become effective when IDA has received Instruments
of Commitments from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discounts on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The cash paid and notes deposited in
nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under due from banks, or as restricted notes included under nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions. Restricted notes at June 30, 2002 were $33 million ($33 million—June 30, 2001).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of "U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, I960’’ (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect from that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1, 1986, subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as,
and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country's per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member's eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. Therefore, there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provi-
sion for credit losses, other than allowances for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. This is because it is not practicable to determine a provision for credit losses in view of the nature and maturity structure of the credit portfolio. Should probable losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June 1987, the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $ 1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
On July 25, 2002, the Executive Directors approved the Thirteenth Replenishment report and subsequently submitted the report and draft resolution to the Board of Governors for their approval. Upon approval by the Board of Governors, IDA would be authorized to provide 18 to 21 percent of financing under the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants.
The Twelfth Replenishment Resolution authorizes the use of Twelfth Replenishment donor funds to finance IDA development grants in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative, or assistance to post-conflict countries under a framework approved by the Executive Directors on July 31, 2001. The net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999 also authorizes the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996 as a legally separate entity. It was administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Original Framework of the Initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms: (i) partial financing of lending operations with development grants; (ii) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subject to availability of funds; and (iii) the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits, in certain cases, by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the Initiative, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on
January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Development grants and any impairments of IDA’s outstanding development credits in connection with the HIPC Debt Initiative are recognized as charges to income. This recognition occurs when development grants and HIPC debt service grants are signed following approval, or when IDA determines that impairments to development credits are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Previously, development grants and such impairments were not charged to income. Instead, they were directly reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources, as a separate line item titled Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative.
Cash and Cash Equivalents: IBRD considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within ninety days.
Investments
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from Investments.
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed separately. IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal. IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including covered forwards.
Futures and Forwards: Futures and forward contracts are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges. IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the net cash margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries require a minimum credit rating of AA if denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity require a minimum credit rating of AA.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.	.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:	Repurchase	agreements	are contracts under
which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
a. Included in Net (payable) receivable on investment securities transactions in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
*	Less than $0.5 million.
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. Additionally, the nature of the instruments involve contract value and notional principal amounts that are not reflected in the basic financial statements. For both on- and off-balance sheet securities, IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
As of June 30, 2002, IDA received $776 million ($356 million—June 30, 2001) of securities purchased under
resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $102 million ($42 million—June 30, 2001) has been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities has been included in the assets of IDA.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
*Less than $0.5 million.
IDA maintains a $100 million line of credit with an independent financial institution. This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit.
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2002, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $122 million ($3,278 million—June 30, 2001) of which $79 million ($80 million—June 30, 2001) was due and $43 million ($3,198 million— June 30, 2001) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30, 2002 were as follows:
Thirteenth Replenishment: On July 25, 2002, the Executive Directors approved the Thirteenth Replenishment report and subsequently submitted the report and draft resolution to the Board of Governors for their approval. Upon approval by the Board of Governors, IDA would be authorized to provide concessional financing of about SDR 18 billion, including a significant portion as grants, during the period July 1, 2002 to June 30, 2005. Of this amount, new donor contributions are expected to total about SDR 10 billion. The Thirteenth Replenishment will become effective when IDA has received commitments for subscriptions and contributions of SDR 5,448 million.
Pending final approval of IDA’s Thirteenth Replenishment, the Executive Directors approved on June 25,
2002	the use of SDR 2.5 billion from internal resources to enable IDA to continue its lending operations on an interim basis during the first half of FY03.
Membership: On July 23, 2002, East Timor became a Part II member of IDA, and on July 15, 2002, IDA
membership status for Greece changed from Part II to Part I.
NOTE D—TRANSFERS AND RECErVABLES FROM IBRD
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $7,057 million through June 30, 2002 ($6,755 million—June 30, 2001). The aggregate transfers reported in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources may differ from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements.
Of the aggregate transfers, $302 million was approved by IBRD’s Board of Governors on December 4, 2001. Of this amount, $300 million will be drawn down in fiscal year 2005, at the end of the defined encashment schedule for donor contributions to IDA’s Twelfth Replenishment. The remaining $2 million was transferred in December 2001 as a reimbursement of IDA’s share of the balance of the fiscal year 2000 cost of implementing the Strategic Compact of IBRD and IDA.
At June 30, 2002, $1,243 million was receivable from IBRD ($896 million—June 30, 2001). The following table shows these receivables in U.S. dollar terms by year of drawdown. The amounts vary by reporting date due to exchange rate movements or transfers approved during the reporting period.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Accumulated Allowance for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Development credits outstanding are presented in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources before any allowance in connection with either the Enhanced or Original HIPC Framework (see Note I).
The nominal value of the principal component of the debt relief to be provided under the Enhanced HIPC Framework is included under accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources. This amount is net of any debt relief delivered to date.
Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA in	ment credits identified for sale,	is recorded under accu-
connection with the sales of IDA credits to the HIPC	mulated allowance for HIPC	Debt Initiative in the
Debt Initiative Trust Fund, the estimated write-down,	Statement of Sources and Application of Development
representing the difference between the carrying value	Resources,
and the net present value (see Note F) of the develop-
Changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001 are summarized below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Balance, beginning of the fiscal year
Enhanced HIPC Framework
Allowance for principal component of debt relief Principal component of debt relief delivered
Original HIPC Framework
Allowance for write-down on sale of development credits Write-down on sale of development credits
Balance, end of the fiscal year a
a.	This balance is the sum of the principal component of the actual amount of debt relief remaining to be provided to those countries that have reached their decision points, and in certain cases their completion points, and the principal component of the best estimate available of the amount of debt relief that is expected to be provided to other eligible countries.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2002, no principal or charges payable to IDA on development credits were overdue by more than three months other than those referred to in the
following paragraph.
At June 30, 2002, development credits made to or guaranteed by certain member countries with an aggregate principal balance outstanding of $5,759 million ($5,887 million—June 30, 2001), of which $443 mil-
lion ($340 million—June 30, 2001) was overdue, were in nonaccrual status. At such date, overdue charges in respect of these development credits totaled $251 million ($207 million—June 30, 2001). If these development credits had not been in nonaccrual status, income from development credits net of charges received from such members during the period, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 would have been higher by $43 million ($34 million—June 30, 2001 and $29 million— June 30, 2000).
As of June 30, 2002, all IDA credits and IBRD loans outstanding to Bosnia and Herzegovina were restored to accrual status following management's determination that a suitable period of payment performance had passed subsequent to the time of arrears clearance. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, income from development credits increased by $ 1 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, Cote d’Ivoire and the Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue service payments to IDA and IBRD, and all IDA development credits to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. These arrears clearances were accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution. On the same day that arrears were cleared, IDA extended development credits to the respective country in support of economic reform and poverty reduction programs. Some or all of the proceeds of these development credits were used to repay the bridge financing. The development credits were funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. As a result of these events, income for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2002 increased by $8 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these development credits not been in nonaccrual status.
No development credits came out of nonaccrual status during the year ended June 30, 2001.
During fiscal year 2002, all development credits made to, or guaranteed by Central Africa Republic, Haiti, Solomon Islands and Togo, were placed in nonaccrual status.
In accordance with the understanding reached with IBRD and IDA in fiscal year 1999, Sudan made regular monthly payments of $1 million to clear its arrears beginning in July 1999. These payments have been applied to IDA arrears, since Sudan has paid off all of its arrears to IBRD.
On July 3, 2002, the Democratic Republic of Congo cleared all of its overdue service payments to IDA and IBRD, and all IDA development credits and IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by, the Democratic Republic of Congo were restored to accrual status. This arrears clearance was accomplished using bridge financing provided by an international financial institution, and
supported by certain member countries. On the same day, IDA disbursed a development credit to the Democratic Republic of Congo in support of an economic and poverty reduction program. A part of the proceeds of this development credit was used to repay the bridge financing. The development credit was funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
During fiscal year 1998, the Syrian Arab Republic and IDA entered into an agreement covering, among other things, the application of payments by the Syrian Arab Republic of its overdue principal and charges. On July 1, 2002, the Syrian Arab Republic made its final payment under this agreement, clearing all of its overdue charges with IDA. All development credits to, or guaranteed by the Syrian Arab Republic were restored to accrual status effective July 1, 2002. There will be no income effect for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 as a result of these events. As this occurred subsequent to June 30, 2002, the effects of this transaction are not reflected in the financial statements of IDA as of June 30, 2002.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under the Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA is allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001 is given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Guarantees
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. Guarantees of principal of $86 million at June 30, 2002 ($28 million—June 30,
2001]	were not included in the Total Resources Used for Development Credits Outstanding. These amounts represent the maximum potential risk if the principal or interest payments guaranteed for these entities are not made. At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, no amounts were subject to call.
Segment Reporting
Based on an evaluation of its operations, management has determined that IDA has only one reportable segment since IDA does not manage its operations by allocating its resources based on the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among its borrowers so that IDA does not differentiate in terms of the nature of products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method of providing services to its borrowers.
For the year ended June 30, 2002, development credits to two countries generated in excess of ten percent of total income from these credits. Income from development credits for these two countries was $144 million and $66 million.
NOTE F—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: IDA carries its investments at the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Development Credits: IDA’s development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA's terms. Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government securities having similar maturity to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Under the Original HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the six months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element.
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U.S. dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits before being aggregated to provide the composite results.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable.
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $96,372 million reflected on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June 30, 2002 ($86,572 million-June 30, 2001), as shown in the following table.
a.	Implies weighted average government reference rates of the component currencies contained in the SDR.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant
NOTE G—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
IDA’s share of the administrative expenses incurred jointly by IBRD and IDA is set out below.
In millions of U.S. dollars
element. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 66 percent as of June 30, 2002 (67 percent—June 30, 2001).
The following table shows the administrative expenses, net of IDA’s share of income from pension plan and other postretirement benefits plans:
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project prep-
aration, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust with IDA and/or IBRD, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not comingled with IDA and/or IBRD funds, nor are they included in the development resources of IDA.
At June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001, the allocation of trust fund assets by executing agent were as follows:
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. IDA receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduction of the administrative expenses charged by IBRD. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, IDA received $10 million ($11 million—June 30, 2001, $7 million—June 30, 2000) as fees for administering trust funds.
NOTE I—IMPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Enhanced HIPC Framework
Assistance under the Enhanced HIPC Framework is provided by IDA, by debt service relief (forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA debt service obligations as they become due), and by means of HIPC debt service grants as partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Debt Service Relief
On January 27, 2000, the Executive Directors of IDA gave approval for IDA to provide debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework by forgiving a portion of an eligible country’s IDA debt service obligations as they become due. Amounts of IDA debt service forgiven are expected to be reimbursed by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Upon approval of the Enhanced HIPC Framework by the Executive Directors of IDA, the nominal value of the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under accumulated
allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. This receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country, and is the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point. A completion point is reached when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met, and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative.
A receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point. This receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed that was not recognized at the decision point.
The accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA. A summary of changes to the accumulated allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is presented under Note E.
As disclosed in the Supplementary Information on the HIPC Debt Initiative table, debt service relief composed of $308 million in principal repayments and $83 million in charges has been provided to date by IDA. These amounts have been reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
HIPC Debt Service Grants
As disclosed in the Supplementary Information on the HIPC Debt Initiative table, HIPC debt service grants totaling $101 million to date have been approved. Of this amount, $37 million is for Honduras and $64 million for Cameroon. To date, $75 million has been disbursed, and the remaining $26 million is included in Payable for HIPC Grants on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Of the $75 million disbursed, $19 million has been reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below:
In millions of U.S. dollars
Original HIPC Framework
A summary of the debt relief provided to date and debt relief to be provided under the Enhanced and Original HIPC Frameworks is reflected in the Supplementary Information on the HIPC Debt Initiative.
NOTE J—DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
During fiscal year 2002, IDA’s Executive Directors approved post-conflict grants totaling SDR 120 million ($154 million U.S. dollar equivalent). Of this total
amount, SDR 40 million ($51 million U.S. dollar equivalent) was for the Democratic Republic of Congo and SDR 80 million ($103 million U.S. dollar equivalent) was for Afghanistan. Upon signature of the grant agreement, the commitments were reflected under the Payable for Development Grants on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources, and as a charge to income on the Statement of Income. As of June 30, 2002, there was an undisbursed amount of $148 million U.S. dollar equivalent.
NOTE K—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that, under generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income comprises currency translation adjustments on development credits and income or loss after HIPC Debt Initiative. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss balances for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
a.	The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on development credits.
b.	Restated to include Interim Trust Fund activity for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, see Note A.
Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries Debt Initiative
Summary of HIPC Debt Initiative
The summary table below shows debt relief for countries that have reached their decision or completion points as of June 30, 2002, and estimated amounts to be provided to other eligible countries (with the exception of those countries for which cost estimates are not currently available), under both the Enhanced and Original Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. In addition to the total debt relief of $12,855 million, IDA is expected to extend new credits estimated at $232 million to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
a.	The debt relief shown relates only to the IBRD/IDA component of this trust fund, and includes amounts approved up to June 30, 2002 by the Executive Directors of IDA.
b.	As of June 30, 2002, the 26 countries that have reached their decision points are Benin, Bolima, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia
Note to Appendixes 3-7 Disbursements and Procurement
The procurement rules and procedures to be followed in the execution of each project depend on individual circumstances. Four considerations generally guide the Bank’s requirements:
■	Economy and efficiency in the execution of a project
■	Opportunity for all eligible bidders from borrowing and nonborrowing member countries to compete in providing goods, works, and services financed by the Bank
■	Development of local contractors, manufacturers, and consulting services in borrowing countries
■	Transparency in the procurement process.
Appendix 3A shows consolidated foreign and local disbursements for IBRD and IDA through the end of fiscal 1997 and for period fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2002. Advance disbursements consist of payments made into special accounts of borrowers, from which funds are paid to specific suppliers as expenditures are incurred. Because balances in these accounts cannot be attributed to any specific supplying country until expenditures have been reported to the Bank, these are shown as a separate category.
Appendix 3B provides details on foreign disbursements by countries eligible to borrow from the World Bank and nonborrowing countries1 for IBRD and IDA separately.
Appendix 3C shows disbursements made in fiscal 2002 by IBRD and IDA for local procurement by current borrowing countries and disbursements made for goods, works, and services procured from them by other Bank borrowers (foreign procurement) for projects funded by the Bank.
Appendix 5 shows the proportion of foreign disbursements from IBRD and IDA for specific categories of goods and services provided by selected member countries in fiscal 2002.
Appendix 6 provides a summary listing of the amounts paid to eligible World Bank borrowing country suppliers and nonborrowing country suppliers in each fiscal year from 2000 to 2002 under investment projects. Amounts disbursed are compared with respect to significant categories of goods procured from foreign suppliers. The extent to which eligible borrowing countries and nonborrowing countries participated in supplying these major categories of goods in each of the past three fiscal years is also compared.
Under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans approved by the executive directors in fiscal 1996, disbursements are no longer directly linked to procurement under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. Thus, while appendixes 3B to 6 report on disbursements from IBRD and IDA, they do not include disbursements under adjustment loans disbursed using simplified procedures. The information in Appendix 7 reflects simplified adjustment loan disbursements to each borrower as pro-rata shares of that borrower’s eligible imports from supplying countries using import data drawn from United Nations trade statistics.
In all these tables and appendixes, IBRD figures exclude disbursements for loans to the IFC and “B” loans. IDA figures include Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa and Interim Trust Fund credits. Disbursements for Project Preparation Facility advances are excluded for both IBRD and IDA.
Appendix 4 shows the amounts disbursed from IBRD and IDA separately for foreign procurement of goods, works, and services from selected member countries in fiscal 2002 and cumulatively through fiscal 2002.
1. Appendix 2 lists countries eligible for borrowing from the World Bank.
Note: Foreign expenditures are expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the borrower or guarantor, for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the territory of the borrower or guarantor. Local expenditures are expenditures in the currency of the borrower or guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the borrower or the guarantor.
Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding.
a.	Amounts exclude debt-reduction disbursements of $3,906 million through fiscal 1997, $82 million in fiscal 1998, and $49 million in fiscal 2002. Amounts include disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans of $3,889 million through fiscal 1997, $9,540 million in fiscal 1998, $10,423 million in fiscal 1999, $5,329 million in fiscal 2000, $5,366 million in fiscal 2001, and $6,584 million in fiscal 2002. Amounts include HIPC Initiative grant disbursements of $74 million in fiscal 1998, $149 million in fiscal 1999, $31 million in fiscal 2001,
$45 million in fiscal 2002, and $11 million in IDA postconflict grants in fiscal 2002.
b.	Net advance disbursements are advances made to special accounts net of amounts recovered (amounts for which the Bank has applied evidence of expenditures to recovery of the outstanding advance).
Note: Amounts exclude disbursements for debt reduction, net advance disbursements, and disbursements under simplified procedures for structural and sectoral adjustment loans and disbursements under HIPC Initiative and IDA postconflict grants. Countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA are listed in appendix 2. For consistency of comparison, the Republic of Korea and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are included as countries eligible to borrow for all periods covered by this table. Korea, a former graduate, again became eligible to borrow in December 1997. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia’s eligibility was reestablished in May 2001.
Amounts may not add to totals because of rounding.
Appendix 13: Development Committee Communiques, Fiscal 2002
1.	The 64th meeting of the Development Committee was held in Ottawa, Canada, on November 18, 2001, under the chairmanship of Mr. Yashwant Sinha, Minister of Finance of India Ministers expressed their great appreciation to the Canadian Government for facilitating the holding of this meeting under unusual circumstances.
2 Impact of Recent Events in Low- and Middle-Income Countries' Response of the World Bank Group. Ministers reviewed the impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks and their aftermath on developing countries They recognized that poverty in many developing countries was likely to worsen as these events have deepened the pre-existing global economic slowdown, which had already led to weaker exports and commodity prices, and have other more specific impacts' e g , increased refugee movements within countries and across borders, reduced private investment flows due to increased risk aversion in financial markets, reduced tourism revenues; and increased trade transaction costs. Ministers called for further enhancing the collaboration among the Bank Group, the IMF, the regional development banks and UN agencies, in their actions to help member countries address these additional challenges and to strengthen social safety nets Ministers underlined the importance of renewed growth in industrialized countries to the improvement of prospects for poverty reduction in developing countries.
3.	Ministers reviewed the response of the World Bank Group. They stressed the importance of the Group using its financial capacity and the flexibility in its available instruments to respond effectively and promptly to current circumstances and emerging needs. They emphasized that financial support should continue to be linked to strong country performance and reform programs in support of poverty reduction Ministers agreed that, from a financial standpoint, the magnitude of likely incremental demands on the Bank Group currently appears manageable, but they urged that the Board and Management keep under close review the Bank Group’s capacity to respond in more challenging circumstances Ministers agreed that IDA had a particularly critical role in helping the poorest countries manage the adverse impact of recent events on their economies and people, and emphasized that timely agreement on a substantial IDA13 replenishment was essential. They encouraged all member governments to complete their subscription to MIGA's general capital increase.
4 Ministers considered improved governance to be an important element in generating the conditions for investment, private-sector-led growth, improved
productivity, job creation, and trade, and, as a result, for poverty reduction Thus, they highlighted the need for the Bank and the Fund, in accordance with their respective mandates and comparative advantage, to pay more attention to governance-related issues, including public expenditure management, diagnostic (e.g., through the Financial Sector Assessment; Program) and capacity-building work to help countries identify and address abuses such as money laundering and terrorist financing. In light of this, they also stressed the importance of working to strengthen further country procurement and financial management systems They also recognized the need to allocate increased resources to address capacity building concerns in many countries to help them meet new internationally agreed commitments and standards.
5.	United Nations Financing for Development Conference. Ministers expressed appreciation to United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the opportunity to discuss with him, at the joint IMFC/Development Committee dinner on November 17, issues related to the March 2002 International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD) They expressed strong interest in contributing to the Conference’s success, which they saw as an important milestone in the effort to halve the incidence of poverty by 2015 and to reach the other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) (endorsed by Heads of State and Government in the UN General Assembly on September 8, 2000), and other agreed targets. They urged governments to involve all relevant ministries in preparing for the Conference to enhance coherence of policies with impact on development. (The Committee’s views on Conference issues are attached.)
6.	Poverty Reduction Strategies Ministers welcomed the significant progress made in implementing the PRSP approach, noting that 38 countries had completed interim PRSPs and eight countries their first full PRSPs. They appreciated the extent to which poverty reduction strategies build on existing national strategies and processes, with a focus on broadening participation and sharpening poverty diagnosis and monitoring, as well as on prioritizing and costing policies and programs for poverty reduction. Ministers welcomed the Bank and Fund’s efforts to work with countries to analyze the poverty and social impact of programs and to help them to build their own capacity Ministers noted that the joint Bank/ Fund staff review of the PRSP approach was underway. They called for a broad-based inclusive process that would draw upon the experience of other stakeholders and development partners, and looked forward to considering the report at their next meeting.
7.	HIPC. Ministers welcome the continued progress made in implementing the HIPC Initiative, noting that twenty-four countries have now reached their decision points under the enhanced HIPC framework, qualifying for debt service relief amounting to some $36 billion; three countries have now reached their completion points and are receiving their full relief under the enhanced Initiative. There has also been a significant reduction in debt stock and debt service in these countries, and the commitment of qualifying HIPCs to increased poverty reduction spending has been encouraging. Ministers urged the Bank and the Fund to work with remaining eligible countries to bring them to their decision and completion points, as quickly as circumstances permit.
8.	Ministers reiterated their commitment to the enhanced HIPC Initiative as a means for achieving a lasting exit from unsustainable debt for eligible countries. They stressed that long term debt sustainability will depend upon the maintenance of sound economic policies, strengthened debt management and the provision of appropriate financing. With regard to recent events, they noted that the enhanced HIPC initiative framework provides for the consideration of additional assistance at the completion point if there has been a fundamental change in a country’s economic circumstances due to exceptional exogenous shocks. The Committee recognized the need to take into account worsening global growth prospects and declines in terms of trade, when updating HIPC initiative debt sustainability analysis at completion point. Ministers noted that the relevant operational procedures for exercising such an option were recently approved by the Bank and Fund Boards. Ministers also reiterated the importance of fully financing the enhanced HIPC Initiative and urged bilateral donors to fulfill this commitment. They welcomed the agreement among donors to continue their regular consultations on the financial requirements of HIPC. They also urged those creditors that had yet to confirm their participation in the Initiative to do so as soon as possible.
9.	Education for All (EFA). Ministers consider education as one of the most powerful instruments for reducing poverty and laying the basis for sustained growth. They welcomed the World Bank’s background paper on this subject and noted the efforts of the Bank and its partners to help ensure that quality primary education is available to all children worldwide as a necessary first step towards strengthening overall education systems. Ministers looked forward to full consideration of this subject at their next meeting, based on an action plan that will address, inter alia, the policy and resource requirements needed to ensure that EFA goals are reached by 2015 through the development of sustainable and high quality EFA programs at the country level.
10.	The Committee expressed its great appreciation to Mr. Yashwant Sinha for his valuable leadership and guidance to the Committee as its Chairman during the last fifteen months, and welcomed his successor, Mr. Trevor Manuel, Finance Minister of South Africa. The Ministers also expressed their warm thanks to Mr. Alexander Shakow upon his retirement as the Committee’s Executive Secretary, and welcomed his successor, Mr. Thomas A. Bernes.
11.	The Committee's next meeting is scheduled for April 22, 2002 in Washington, D.C.
Attachment (Financing for Development Conference)
Attachment to the Development Committee Communique
(64th Meeting—Ottawa, Canada, November 18, 2001)
Financing for Development Conference (Ff D)
1.	Building Development Partnerships on a Foundation of Sound Policies and Good Governance. Ministers reaffirmed the critical importance of sound national policies and good governance as prerequisites for poverty reduction and sustained growth. They noted that the Millennium Development Goals (endorsed by Heads of State and Government in the UN General Assembly on September 8, 2000) and other internationally agreed development targets can help guide country-owned short- and medium-term national priorities on which external partnerships of support could be based. They noted that the Comprehensive Development Framework principles and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers provide a vehicle for structuring partnerships with donors; they also provide a framework for the interventions of donors and other partners—such as through country assistance strategies and UN Development Assistance Frameworks—to ensure that external support is well integrated into national programs. An important contribution by the international community would be the strengthened provision of technical assistance to help developing countries—particularly low-in-come countries and those emerging from conflict— improve their capacity for sound economic management and efficient use of resources.
2.	Strengthening the Conditions for Investment and Growth. Ministers stressed that, in addition to a stable and conducive international framework, a sound national policy environment, essential infrastructure and good governance are needed to allow the private sector to invest efficiently and create employment. They recognized that in many countries major reforms of the policy and regulatory framework will
(continued next page)
be required to encourage domestic investment and job creation. Such reforms can also help to promote foreign investment and contribute to productivity growth and the additional resources needed for sustainable development. Ministers underlined the need for coherent and comprehensive support to private sector development. They emphasized the important role that IFC, MIGA, and other agencies working directly with the private sector can play in this regard.
3.	Promoting Integration into the International Trading System. Trade is an important source of growth and poverty reduction, and developing countries need to be able to take greater advantage of the opportunities it offers. In this connection, the Committee warmly welcomed the decision reached by the WTO last week in Doha to launch a new round of trade negotiations. They endorsed the WTO Ministerial Declaration’s aim to place the needs and interests of developing countries at the heart of their Work Programme. Ministers emphasized the importance of countries integrating trade into their development strategies and improving their investment regulations, standards and technical regulations, removing obstacles to efficient transport of goods and materials, and strengthening telecommunications and business services. Ministers noted that greater access to markets would provide a major boost to development. They also stressed the priority they attach to helping developing countries strengthen their capacity to respond to market opportunities and to implement trade-related agreements.
4.	Importance of Enhancing ODA Flows. Ministers recognized that for most low-income countries the availability of Official Development Assistance (ODA) remains an essential supplement to domestic resource mobilization and foreign investment if growth and poverty reduction goals are to be achieved. Ministers agreed that special emphasis should be placed on ensuring that adequate resources are directed to countries implementing sound policies and exercising good governance. They recognized that a substantial increase in current ' ODA levels would be required if the opportunities emerging from policy improvements in low-income countries are to be realized and the MDGs to be met. In this context, a number of Ministers referred to the need to reach the 0.7 percent ODA/GNP target. It would also require that, among countries with sound policies and governance, ODA be allocated with greater emphasis on countries with the greatest need (in part based on the difficulties they face in the achievement of their MDGs) and with capacity to make the most effective and efficient use of the resources. Ministers also emphasized the importance of appropriate concessionality in ODA flows.
5.	Harmonization—Reducing the Transaction Costs of Aid. Ministers noted that major improvements in development effectiveness and efficiency, as well as reduced administrative burdens and costs on recipient governments, would be gained from eliminating rigidities in aid delivery mechanisms. In this regard, they highlighted the critical importance of harmonization of operational policies and procedures by the Bank, other multilateral agencies and bilateral aid donors. Ministers welcomed the World Bank’s report on progress achieved to date in this area and commended the action programs set forth in this report. The Committee urged that the Bank and its partners continue vigorously to pursue these programs, and that the FfD Conference be encouraged to recognize the importance of, and provide broad-based support for, further progress in such harmonization and its implementation at the country level.
6.	Debt and Other Instruments. Ministers underscored the need to deploy a flexible mix of instruments so as to respond appropriately to the needs of developing countries in a manner consistent with their economic circumstances and public expenditure management capacities. While urging that the HIPC Initiative continue to be implemented expeditiously to achieve debt sustainability for the poorest countries, they noted that debt relief is only one of many possible actions and instruments to support country poverty reduction strategies.
7.	Global Public Goods. Ministers noted that FfD provides an opportunity for enhancing a common approach to global public goods and accelerating progress on the coordination of priority global public goods areas, such as those addressing HIV/AIDS and other major infectious diseases. They agreed on the importance of focusing on specific priority activities, while consolidating initiatives to achieve efficient use of resources. They stressed the need to ensure that activities are anchored in national as well as global strategies. In some cases this would require ensuring additionality in funding, while in others flexibility and reinforcement of existing mechanisms would be needed to help countries own and implement global public goods-related national programs.
8.	Making the Most of Existing Institutions.
Ministers noted that FfD offers an opportunity to establish a broad international consensus—among governments, institutions, the private sector, and civil society—for action on the basis of common objectives and for the identification of specific gaps that may require enhanced international action. This would provide a platform for individual institutions to use their respective mandates, governance structures and strengths to undertake high priority initiatives as well as to promote more focused and coherent action among bilateral and multilateral
agencies. Ministers strongly believe in making the most of existing institutions.
9.	Integration into the Global System. Ministers agreed on the importance of promoting the greater integration of developing countries into the global financial system. They noted that progress is being achieved through the efforts of, inter alia, the international financial institutions, including in areas of crisis prevention, standards and codes, legal and regulatory frameworks, transparency, financial sector strengthening, combating terrorist financing and other abuses, debt management, and private sector participation in the resolution of financial crises. Ministers also agreed that it is important to find pragmatic and innovative ways to continue to enhance the effective participation of developing countries in international dialogues and decisionmaking processes.
10.	Staying Engaged. Ministers noted that the FfD Conference should be seen as part of ongoing efforts to intensify concerted international action for development and poverty reduction, to expand growth opportunities for developing countries, and to improve the effectiveness and responsiveness of development cooperation. They urged that the follow-up to the Conference be seen in this context. They believe that the dialogue among the ECOSOC and the Bretton Woods Institutions offers unrealized potential, as does further progress within the framework of the coordinating committee of the heads of United Nations agencies (ACC). Greater cooperation among existing institutions is needed, based on
a clear understanding and respect for their respective responsibilities and governance structures. For example, a combined effort by the Bretton Woods institutions and the United Nations, along with the OECD, to check periodically on progress towards the MDGs, would provide an efficient and practical approach for improved cooperation.
11.	Ministers requested their Chairman to convey these conclusions to the President of the United Nations General Assembly.
Communique
1.	We met today to discuss future challenges for development and an action plan for universal primary education.
2.	We welcomed the very important progress achieved in the Monterrey Consensus laying out a new partnership compact between developed and developing countries, based on mutual responsibility and accountability, to achieve measurable improvements in sustainable growth and poverty reduction. We recognized the efforts of the World Bank and the IMF, working together with the UN, in contributing
to this result. We look forward to their continuing collaboration and to strengthening this new partnership as we work towards a successful World Summit on Sustainable Development.
3.	This new partnership for development recognizes that country-owned and driven development strategies embodying sound policies and good governance have to be the starting point. Such strategies need to be supported by increased and more effective development assistance and by greater efforts to integrate developing countries into the global economy. We are committed to the implementation of these strategies and partnerships, such as NEPAD, as part of the scaling up of activities that is necessary for implementing the Monterrey Consensus and to meet the Millennium Development Goals,1 we will regularly review progress at future meetings. We welcomed the pledges made at Monterrey by a number of donors to increase their official development assistance.
4.	The CDF/PRSP approach is increasingly providing a common foundation for implementing the new partnership at the country level. While recognizing that scope for improvement exists, we shared the positive assessment of implementation to date, particularly in enhancing ownership. We look forward to continued progress in extending the participatory processes for the elaboration and monitoring of PRSPs, implementing pro-poor growth policies, enhancing collaboration to strengthen public expenditure management and to improve poverty and social impact analysis; and, amongst multilateral and bilateral development agencies, in better aligning their programs with country strategies.
5.	We reaffirmed our strong support for the current work program to harmonize operational policies and procedures of bilateral and multilateral agencies so as to enhance aid effectiveness and efficiency. We committed to further action in streamlining such procedures and requirements over the period leading to the high-level forum scheduled for early 2003.
6.	Evidence demonstrates that effective assistance in support of good policies and institutions can bring important development benefits. More attention should be given to the building of institutions and capacities as well as the timing and sequencing of the reform process. We underlined the importance of an enhanced focus on results that can be used
by countries in designing and implementing their strategies, and by donors and development agencies in scaling up and allocating their support. We asked the World Bank to report to us at our next meeting
1. From the U.N. Millennium Declaration, endorsed by Heads of State and Government in the U.N. General Assembly on September 8, 2000.
(continued next page)
on its efforts in this respect. We would also welcome a report on efforts underway to engage more effectively with weak-performing low-income countries.
7.	Economic growth requires a strong and vibrant private sector and an enabling climate that encourages investment, entrepreneurship and job creation. However, it is not enough to strengthen the private sector in developing countries without further progress in integrating them into the global trading system. We thus strongly endorsed the call at Monterrey for coherence between development assistance and trade policies. We urged an acceleration of efforts to lower trade barriers (including trade distorting subsidies) and we called upon the Bank and others to provide more support in helping developing countries address policy, institutional, social and infrastructure impediments limiting their ability to share in the benefits of trade.
8.	Education is one of the most powerful instruments for reducing poverty. We strongly endorsed the action plan presented by the Bank as a basis for reaching international consensus to help make primary education a reality for all children by 2015. We appreciated in particular that the action plan is consistent with the new partnership for development based on mutual responsibility and accountability. We called on the Bank to continue to work in partnership with UNESCO and other relevant agencies. We encourage all countries to place education at the heart of their poverty reduction strategies, reform their education policies to achieve Universal Primary Completion and monitor progress towards the 2015 education goals in line with an enhanced focus on results. We committed ourselves to work together
in a much more coherent way to help bring this
about and to provide the necessary additional domestic and external resources. The Bank and all other stakeholders should strengthen their efforts to achieve the MDG on gender equality in primary and secondary education by 2005. We will review progress at our next meeting.
9.	We reviewed and welcomed the steady progress that has been made on the HIPC initiative. We remain committed to its vigorous implementation and full financing. Our objective remains an early and enduring exit from unsustainable debt for HIPC countries. We noted that within existing guidelines, additional relief can be provided at the completion point, on a case-by-case basis. Success will require
a sustained commitment by HIPC countries to improvements in policies and debt management and by the donor community to continue to provide adequate and appropriate concessional financing.
We will discuss the issue of debt sustainability and, consequently, financing and policy implications, at the next meeting.
10.	Finally, we reviewed a progress report on antimoney laundering and combating terrorist financing. Recognizing the serious risks posed by these activities, we welcomed the action plans agreed by the Bank and the Fund and the enhanced collaboration with other institutions. We encouraged the Bank and
. Fund to continue to integrate these issues into their diagnostic work in line with their respective mandates, and urged that capacity building assistance be increased so that countries could better address these issues.
11.	The Committee’s next meeting is scheduled for September in Washington.