Message from the President of the World Bank and Chairman of the Board of Directors
The past year has brought with it signs of hope and progress, but it has also brought signs of concern in the fight against global poverty.
On a positive note, new data this year show that the number of poor people continues to fall. The proportion of people living on less than $1 a day decreased from 40 to 21 percent of the global population between 1981 and 2001. Development indicators are clearly improving in countries that have laid good foundations for growth. In Europe, for example, we saw Slovenia graduate from Bank borrower status and join the European Union along with nine other Bank member countries.
The progress, though, is uneven across the globe. Growth in East Asia has meant that there were 500 million fewer people living below $1 a day in 2001 than in 1981. The number of poor people has also fallen in South Asia and in the Middle East and North Africa, though less dramatically than in East Asia. However, the absolute number of poor people has risen in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe and Central Asia.
This year the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were held in the Middle East for the first time. In Dubai, where we met in the shadow of conflict and loss, I stressed that the world I see today is a world out of balance. Of the 6 billion people in the world today, 1 billion people in the wealthy countries account for 80 percent of the world’s gross domestic product while the other 5 billion have 20 percent. While rich countries spend $700 billion a year for defense and transfer $325 billion to their agriculture, they devote just $68 billion to development assistance.
These global imbalances are reflected in the daily lives of poor people around the world. Two billion people have no access to clean water, 115 million children never get the chance to go to school, and some 38 million people, more than 95 percent of them in developing countries, are HIV-positive, with little hope of receiving treatment.
It was only four years ago, in 2000, that world leaders gathered at the Millennium Summit in New York
President Wolfensohn among World Youth representatives at the Youth, Development, and Peace Conference 2003 in Paris, France.
and committed themselves to cut poverty in half by 2015. They agreed on Millennium Development Goals for health, education, women, and the environment.
At our Spring Meetings this year, the Bank launched the first Global Monitoring Report, which highlights the policies and actions we all need to reach those goals. The report, a joint effort with the IMF, sounded an alarm bell: most of the goals will not be met in most countries by the 2015 deadline.
So the world is at a tipping point: either we in the international community recommit to delivering on the goals, or the targets we set in a fanfare of publicity will be missed, the world’s poor will be left even further behind, and our children will be left to face the consequences.
During the next 25 years, about 2 billion more people will be added to the global population, but only 50 million of them will be in the richer countries. The vast majority will be born with the prospect of growing up in poverty and becoming disillusioned with a world they will inevitably view as inequitable and unjust. Terrorism is often bred in places where a fast-growing youth population has no hope.
We cannot ignore the rise of this more youthful world. In the past year, I met with youth from all over the world at places as varied as Tsinghua University in Beijing and Brandeis University in Massachusetts.
These young people are not only the future—they are the now. Almost half the people of the world today are under 24 years old. Nine out of 10 of these young people live in developing countries. A billion of them will need jobs in the next decade. An ever-increasing number will leave their home countries to find work.
We need to face these realities, and we need to act on three issues in particular.
First, world trade talks—which can reduce agricultural protectionism and thus poverty in developing nations—must be pushed forward. Developing countries would gain nearly $325 billion by 2015 as a result, enough to lift 140 million people out of poverty.
Second, aid flows need to rise well above current commitments, and they need to be used more effectively. Although some increases have been made in recent years, almost a doubling of current development assistance levels will be required to meet the Millennium Development Goals. It is essential that donor countries fully replenish the International Development Association (IDA)—the fund that delivers proven results for the world’s poorest nations.
Third, we must push forward in relieving the debt burdens of the poorest countries by providing a larger proportion of additional aid in the form of grants rather than loans.
For these actions to be successful, the bargain between rich and poor nations struck at the Monterrey Conference in 2002 must be more effectively implemented. The developing countries must do more to reform their economies and cut out corruption, and the developed countries must back those reforms with increased support.
In the global fight against poverty, the World Bank is—and should be—playing a central role. The Bank’s strategy continues to focus on the two pillars for poverty reduction: empowering people and improving the investment climate. These pillars support the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies and are reflected in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers of poorer countries and the development strategies of wealthier ones. The Bank continued its client-oriented approach this year, supporting development of Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers in low-income countries that receive IDA credits, and doing more to tailor its lending instruments for middle-income countries that borrow from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). We are also continuing to work with countries experiencing weak policies, institutions, and often internal conflict through a special initiative known as Low-Income Countries under Stress. Donor partnerships are critical to success.
The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative gained momentum this year, with progress toward its goal of cutting poor countries’ debt to manageable levels. Twenty-seven countries—two-thirds of those eligible—are now participating and are receiving debt relief that will total more than $52 billion from all creditors over time. With our partners, we are working to move beyond debt relief to debt sustainability.
On the AIDS front, the Bank joined with the United Nations Children’s Fund; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and the Clinton Foundation to provide generic drugs at a fraction of the current cost. We are also working with partners to develop HIV/AIDS prevention programs in countries with high risk.
One highlight of the year was the development conference we cohosted with the Chinese government in Shanghai, the culmination of nine months of studying development experiences. Leaders from developing countries shared their successes and failures with other leaders. We learned that feeling good about individual projects is not enough. We learned that we must “scale up” our development efforts. It is not 10 schools we are trying to help build. It is 10,000 schools. It is not
5	bridges we are trying to help construct. It is
5,000	bridges. It is not thousands of people we are trying to support. It is billions of people.
We at the World Bank believe that the disadvantaged of the world should be seen not as objects of charity but as assets in the fight against poverty. We believe overcoming poverty is a moral, social, economic, and security imperative. We will continue to state this view loud and clear as we work tirelessly to support all who seek to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the World Bank’s general operations, performing their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, the member countries having the largest number of shares appoint 5 of the 24 Executive Directors; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years.
Executive Directors consider and decide on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made by the President, and they decide on policies that guide the Bank’s general operations. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors, at the Annual Meetings, an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the Bank’s operations and policies as well as other matters that require submission to the Board of Governors. The Board of Executive Directors (the Board) also exercises an important role in shaping Bank policy and its evolution. It is in this role that the Board takes into account the evolving
perspectives of member countries on the strategy and operations of the Bank Group. In this regard, the Operations Evaluation Department provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations. The department is directly accountable to the Board for performing evaluations as set out in its Board-approved policies, strategies, and work program.
The Executive Directors regularly meet at Bank headquarters to carry out their responsibilities, in formal Board meetings as the Committee of the Whole as well as in informal meetings. Directors also serve on one or more standing committees: Audit, Budget, Development Effectiveness (CODE), Governance and Executive Directors’Administrative Matters (COGAM), and Personnel. With the committees’ help, the Board discharges its oversight responsibilities through indepth examinations of policies and practices. Committees are not empowered to make decisions for the entire Board.
In fiscal 2004 the Audit Committee revised its terms of reference, taking into consideration emerging best
practices in the areas of governance and oversight as well as the special status of the World Bank Group as a multilateral organization. The revised terms of reference are now the foundation for continued enhancements in the governance and control framework within the World Bank Group. The Budget Committee secured management’s commitment to the Board’s early engagement in the Bank budget process and plans to work with management toward developing an integrated multiyear framework. CODE, as part of the Bank’s simplification and harmonization efforts, discussed the eligibility of expenditures in World Bank lending. COGAM approved a new code of conduct for Board members and continued its discussion of Board effectiveness and the issue of voice and participation of developing and transition countries in the Bretton Woods institutions. The Personnel Committee recommended, and the Board approved, an employment policy for a more flexible work force.
Executive Directors and Alternate Executive Directors periodically visit borrowing countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide variety of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, and government officials, as well as representatives of civil society organizations, the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. During fiscal 2004 Directors visited Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro, Kosovo, Vietnam, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, and Samoa.
Directors also play an active role in preparing the agenda and issues papers for the semiannual meetings of the joint World Bank and International Monetary Fund (Bank-Fund) Development Committee. In fiscal 2004 the Development Committee continued to address the Bank’s strategy for monitoring progress in fighting poverty and achieving the internationally agreed-upon goals of the Millennium Declaration. Toward that end the Development Committee reviewed the first progress report, known as the Global Monitoring Report, on achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). (See chapter 4 of this volume and the Development Committee Communiques on the enclosed CD-ROM.)
STRATEGIC ISSUES
The Board emphasized the following areas during the fiscal year.
Strategic Framework
The Board’s work during fiscal 2004 focused on the continued implementation of its Strategic Framework, last reviewed and updated in fiscal 2002. Management presented the Executive Directors with several papers on the strategic directions for the Bank Group for the fiscal 2004-06 period, including a medium-term strategy and finance paper. The Board reviewed these papers and expressed strong support for the continued focus on implementation and results toward attaining the MDGs, and on greater selectivity, trade-offs, redeployment, and efficiency gains.
The Bank’s Role in Poverty Reduction
The Board’s agenda continued to emphasize the Bank’s role and contributions toward meeting the MDGs. This year, in addition to the first Global Monitoring Report, Directors also reviewed other papers including the “Progress Report on Financing Modalities toward the MDGs” and “Supporting Sound Country Policies with Adequate and Appropriate Financing: Implementing the Monterrey Consensus at the Country Level.” The Board reviewed a report on poverty reduction entitled “Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers: Progress in Implementation and Detailed Analysis of Progress in Implementation.” It also considered 12 Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) and 20 PRSP Progress Reports.
On the related issue of debt reduction, the Board focused on the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. In fiscal 2004 it considered 6 HIPC completion point documents. (The completion point is the point at which all creditors provide, unconditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed on at the decision point, the point at which the international community agrees on the amount of debt relief a country needs and begins providing it. The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country’s PRSP.) The Board also considered a number of joint Bank-Fund papers on the HIPC Initiative, including the annual HIPC progress report and papers on the HIPC sunset clause—the deadline for these countries to adopt programs of adjustment and reforms, supported by IDA and the International Monetary Fund and leading to the decision point—and the topping-up framework, within which additional debt relief is provided at the completion point in exceptional cases where exogenous factors have led to a fundamental change in a country’s
economic situation. In addition, the Board considered the new joint Bank-Fund work on long-term debt sustainability in low-income countries.
Country Programs
Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and the principles underlying the Comprehensive Development Framework and PRSPs remained the cornerstone of Bank Group work at the country level. Directors continued their call for a closer link between the CAS and the PRSP process and for grounding CASs in a realistic, measurable, results-based framework that can be monitored. The Board reviewed 38 CASs, 6 of which are results-based, and CAS products during the fiscal year. It emphasized the need for these strategies to be more focused and selective by building on partnerships. The Board also stressed the need to pay greater attention to implementation, capacity building, and risks.
Global Programs and Partnerships
The Bank has continued to respond to demands for its involvement in and support of global partnerships and international initiatives with the International Monetary Fund, other multilateral institutions, the United Nations system, bilateral aid agencies, and civil society. The managements of both the Bank and the Fund decided to strengthen the Joint Implementation Committee, giving it a renewed mandate to address issues that affect both middle- and low-income countries. Areas of collaboration include scaling up activities in support of middle-income countries and increasing debt
sustainability in low-income countries. Other areas of collaboration included supporting anti-money-laundering activities and combating the financing of terrorism, improving the international financial architecture, providing implementation updates on the PRSP and HIPC processes, and strengthening Bank-Fund country programs and conditionality. The Board also reviewed the progress of global programs and partnerships and the development of a framework for monitoring cooperation among multilateral institutions.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibility on behalf of its shareholders, in part through its Audit Committee. The committee advises the Board on a broad range of financial management and other governance issues with the goal of strengthening the overall control environment and Board decision making on the Bank’s financial policy and direction.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The total administrative budget for fiscal 2004 was $1,865.2 million, net of reimbursements, and included $178.2 million for the Development Grant Facility. The net administrative budget of $1,438.3 million represented a 2.5 percent real increase over the fiscal 2003 budget (a 6 percent nominal increase). In June 2004 the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $2,000.3 million for fiscal 2005.
A comprehensive program to support the reconstruction of Timor-Leste won the President's Award for Excellence in 2002.
A villager harvests rice on the high plains of Madagascar. Because of widespread deforestation and consequent soil erosion, the country must now supplement its rice production with Asian imports.
IBRD aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development through loans, guarantees, and (nonlending) analytical and advisory services. The income that IBRD has generated over the years has allowed it to fund several developmental activities and to ensure its financial strength, which enables it to borrow in capital markets at low cost and offer clients good borrowing terms. IBRD’s 24-member Board is made up of 5 appointed and 19 elected Executive Directors, who represent its 184 member countries.
Contributions to IDA enable the World Bank to provide approximately $6 billion to $9 billion a year in highly concessional financing to the world’s 81 poorest countries (home to 2.5 billion people). IDA’s interest-free credits and grants are vital because these countries have little or no capacity to borrow on market terms. In most of these countries, the great majority of people live on less than $2 a day. IDA’s resources help support country-led poverty reduction strategies in key policy areas, including raising productivity, providing accountable governance, improving the private investment climate, and improving access to education and health care for poor people.
IFC promotes economic development through the private sector. Working with business partners, it invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing countries without accepting government guarantees. It provides equity, long-term loans, structured finance and risk management products, and advisory services to its clients. IFC seeks to reach businesses in regions and countries that have limited access to capital. It provides finance in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation and adds value to the projects it finances through its corporate governance, environmental, and social expertise.
MIGA helps promote foreign direct investment in developing countries by providing guarantees to investors against noncommercial risks, such as expropriation, currency inconvertibility and transfer restrictions, war and civil disturbance, and breach of contract. MIGA’s capacity to serve as an objective intermediary and to influence the resolution of potential disputes enhances investors’ confidence that they will be protected against these risks. In addition, MIGA provides technical assistance and advisory services to help countries attract and retain foreign investment and to disseminate information on investment opportunities to the international business community.
1.Amounts include funds leveraged through the Cooperative Underwriting Program.
ICSID helps encourage foreign investment by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, thereby helping foster an atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and foreign investors. Many international agreements concerning investment refer to ICSID’s arbitration facilities. ICSID also issues publications on dispute settlement and foreign investment law.
■	The Global Conference on Poverty Reduction
held in Shanghai, China, in May 2004 brought the development community together to consider concrete actions to accelerate progress on the development agenda. One hundred case studies, undertaken for the conference, helped to identify poverty solutions that work and that can be applied around the world. (See chapter 1, box 1.1, and chapter 5.)
■	IBRD approved 87 projects for $11 billion in fiscal
2004	in 33 countries. IDA made commitments
of $9 billion for 158 operations in 62 countries.
(See chapter 5.)
■	The 16th Annual Bank Conference on Development Economics (ABCDE) was held in Washington, D.C., and Europe in May 2004. The Washington, D.C., conference, on May 3 and 4, featured keynote addresses by Nobel Laureate Vernon Smith and Bank Senior Vice President and Chief Economist Francois Bourguignon. The theme of the conference was “Lessons of Experience."
The Bank will publish the conference proceedings in fiscal 2005. At the ABCDE Europe conference, on May 10 and 11, some 350 policy makers, academics, journalists, and representatives of youth organizations and civil society organizations discussed the theme “Doha, Monterrey, and Johannesburg: Are We on Track?"
■	In April 2004 World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn appeared before the United Nations Security Council in New York and called for a War on AIDS. He cited the devastation that AIDS has caused in developing countries, most notably in Africa, and warned that AIDS is turning the clock back on development and undermining economic and social hope. AIDS in Africa has already claimed 13 million African lives and orphaned 10 million children.
■	In April 2004 the Bank joined in partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the United Nations Children's Fund; and the Clinton Foundation to make generic drugs available to people infected with HIV/AIDS in more than 100 poor countries. The program will reduce the cost of drugs to about one-third to one-half the cost of the cheapest drugs available commercially; diagnostic tests will cost about one-fifth
of the market price. The drugs have been
endorsed by the World Health Organization.
(See chapter 3.)
■	Slovenia “graduated" on March 17, 2004, from being a recipient of Bank financial and technical assistance and expressed its intention to become an IDA donor in the 14th Replenishment. Slovenia: From Yugoslavia to the European Union was published by the Bank in April 2004. Slovenia and nine other World Bank member countries—Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, and the Slovak Republic—joined the European Union in May 2004. The Bank has loaned a total of $10.6 billion
to these countries since 1990. (See chapter 2.)
■	The first Global Monitoring Report was published in June 2004, produced jointly by Bank and IMF staff in close collaboration with partner agencies.
It assesses progress on the policies and actions by developing countries, developed countries, and development agencies to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. (See chapter 4.)
■	As part of its results action plan, the Bank developed and began to implement the Statistical Capacity Building Program to help developing countries strengthen statistical systems, institutional capacity, and planning.
■	In fiscal 2004 the Bank conducted a review of its activities with middle-income countries and approved an action plan for enhancing services to those countries. Almost 70 percent of the world's poor people live in middle-income countries, hence the need for a strong Bank role. Action on the plan began in fiscal 2004. (See chapter 1.)
■	The Bank worked to simplify and modernize its lending policies and procedures to make it easier for clients to borrow. It also worked with development partners to harmonize processes for the benefit of borrowing countries. (See chapter 4.)
■	In cooperation with the United Nations, the Bank produced a Joint Iraq Needs Assessment, which identified Iraq's reconstruction and development requirements and estimated the financing needed for reconstruction. The two organizations made provisions for trust funds to help donors channel their resources and coordinate support.
(See chapter 5.)
■	The Bank's Post-Conflict Fund is now benefiting 36 countries. It provided three grants to Iraq this
■
■
■
year for knowledge sharing in the areas of human development, water, and power. Other countries receiving support include Cote d'Ivoire, Haiti, Liberia, and Somalia. The Fund has approved a total of more than $61 million for grants for the period 1998-2005. The Africa region is the largest beneficiary of the funds. (See chapter 3.)
The Bank created a new $25 million trust fund for low-income countries under stress, which will target governance reforms and social services. (See chapter 1.)
In February 2004 negotiations for the 14th Replenishment of IDA were launched when donor and borrower representatives met in Paris. Commitments to IDA14 will be especially important to developing countries as they strive to reach the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
(See chapter 5.)
At the global Development Marketplace held in December 2003, 183 finalists from 65 countries presented innovative proposals for solving development problems. Winning projects— groundbreaking ideas in the fight against poverty—ranged from expanding health care outreach and medical supplies in Mozambique to improving landfill management and conserving an endangered plant species in Brazil by recycling coconut husks. Since 1998 the Development
Marketplace has awarded more than $24 million in grants to some 370 projects (www.developmentmarketplace.org).
■	On the eve of the Cancun trade talks in September 2003, the Bank launched Global Economic Prospects 2004: Realizing the Development Promise of the Doha Agenda. It presents a detailed overview of the world economy and an analysis of global trade issues, particularly those on the agenda for the Doha round of trade negotiations.
■	At the Youth, Development, and Peace Conference
in Paris in September 2003, President James D. Wolfensohn and Managing Director Mamphela Ramphele met with participants from youth organizations worldwide, many of whom are active in development programs in their countries.
Mr. Wolfensohn assured them that the Bank is ready to engage them more substantially in its work. The conference was jointly organized by the Bank, the European Youth Forum, and the World Organization of the Scout Movement.
(See chapter 3.)
■	World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn's speech at the Annual Meetings in Dubai in September 2003 pointed to the inequity and imbalance between rich and poor, which he said was both unsustainable and a source of global instability. The speech challenged governments and organizations to scale up their efforts toward meeting the Millennium Development Goals.
■	In July 2003 the Bank launched its Infrastructure Action Plan. The plan sets the stage for increased support for infrastructure service delivery through a balanced public sector-private sector approach and the mobilization of financing from multiple sources. (See chapter 3.)
The Development Marketplace Global Competition was held December 3-4, 2003, in Washington, D.C.
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) TOGETHER MAKE UP THE WORLD BANK, AN INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION WHOSE MISSION IS TO FIGHT WORLD POVERTY THE BANK HELPS CLIENT COUNTRIES ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT BY HARNESSING RESOURCES AND FORMING PARTNERSHIPS WITH OTHERS, INCLUDING DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTIONS AND CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS.
Developing countries have made much progress in recent decades. Globally, life expectancy at birth has risen by 20 years over the past 40 years, and adult illiteracy has been cut in half over the past 30 years. Poverty rates have fallen: the proportion of people
living in extreme poverty fell from just under 40 percent in 1981 to 21 percent in 2001. In countries that have laid good foundations for growth, indicators of social development are improving. Strong health programs in Brazil, Thailand, and Uganda are controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome), and Thailand has reduced the number of new infections from 140,000 a year in the early 1990s to 30,000 in 2001.
The success stories of many developing countries prove that progress is possible when countries have good policies and the support of partners. But progress has been uneven. Slow growth, low educational achievement, civil disturbances, and poor health remain obstacles for many countries. At the end of 2003, some 38 million adults and children were living with HIV/AIDS—more than 95 percent of them in developing countries and 70 percent of them in Africa. Almost a million new cases emerged in South and East Asia, where more than 7 million people now live with the disease.
To accelerate the development agenda, the global community embraced the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), eight common goals that identify clear targets for eradicating poverty and other sources of human deprivation and for promoting sustainable development by 2015. In September 2000,189 countries signed the Millennium Declaration.
The agenda is unfinished, and the challenge is immense. Some 2.8 billion people—more than half of the population in developing countries—still live on less than $2 a day, and 1.1 billion of these people live on less than $1 a day. The task of helping these people
move from poverty to prosperity while the world’s population continues to grow is enormous. (Figure 1.1 shows poverty rates by region since 1990.)
MONITORING PROGRESS
With broad agreement on the goals, the international community forged a shared development strategy at meetings in Doha, Monterrey, and Johannesburg, where trade, financing for development, and sustainable development were discussed. In Monterrey world leaders formed a consensus on mutual responsibilities: developing countries are called upon to improve policies and governance, and developed countries are called upon to step up support by providing more and better aid and more open access to their markets.
The first Global Monitoring Report, published in June 2004, looks at the progress made toward the MDGs, the constraints blocking action, and how all parties are doing in delivering on their commitments. The report, produced jointly by the staffs of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in close collaboration with partner agencies, assesses the policies and actions needed to attain the MDGs and related outcomes. Its findings present the sobering assessment that, while the first goal of halving poverty will likely be met globally, given current trends, most countries will not meet most of the goals. A significant and immediate increase in resources and concentrated effort by all parties is needed to avoid falling far short of the goals. (See “Global Monitoring of Policies and Actions toward the MDGs” in chapter 4.)
1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Halve the number of people in extreme poverty, and the number of people who suffer from hunger, by 2015
2 Achieve universal primary education
Ensure by 2015 that all children will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling
3 Promote gender equality and empower women
Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education by 2005, and in all levels of education by 2015
4 Reduce child mortality
Reduce by two-thirds the under-five mortality rate by 2015
5 Improve maternal health
Reduce by three-quarters the maternal mortality rate by 2015
6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases
Halt the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other major diseases, and begin to reverse the spread, by 2015
7 Ensure environmental sustainability
Halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water by 2015
8 Develop a global partnership for development
Further develop an open, rule-based, predictable, nondiscriminatory trading and financial system
No country truly committed to poverty reduction and to meeting the MDGs should be denied the chance of achieving these goals because of lack of resources.
Yet that is what is happening. Development assistance has risen since the meeting in Monterrey, where donors pledged additional support, but the increase largely reflects debt relief and technical cooperation grants.
By all estimates, there is a gap between the amounts pledged and the amount necessary to achieve the MDGs. It is critical—and urgent—to increase
the quantity and quality of development assistance to countries with sound policies to help them accelerate their progress toward the MDGs. (See figure 1.2.)
It is clear that the goals remain a great challenge and that hard work lies ahead for the entire international community. The Bank is deeply committed to responding to the challenge and playing the important role expected of it in the new global architecture for development.
The most effective development strategy is one that is country owned and country led, promotes economic growth, and ensures that poor people participate in and benefit from their country’s development. Reducing poverty effectively depends on many factors. Foremost among these are a conducive development climate and the participation of all people in their country’s development. (See box 1.1.) These two pillars form the basis of the Bank’s strategy, set forth in the Strategic Framework in 2001.
Building the Climate for Investment, Jobs, and Sustainable Growth
Entrepreneurship, investment, and innovation by the private sector drive economic growth, but they will not occur without the right environment. A good economic climate spurs domestic economic activity and attracts domestic and foreign investment. Such a climate can be identified by its positive characteristics: sound macroeconomic policies, openness to trade, good governance and institutions, strong financial markets that channel savings to productive uses and broaden access to finance, and the availability of key physical infrastructure (transportation, power, and telecommunications). Since 1999 many countries have improved their private business environments, according to evidence from Country Policy and Institutional Assessments conducted by the Bank using a number of indicators rated on a scale of one to six. (See figure 1.3.) Average ratings for business environment are rising but are still relatively low, showing continued weakness.
More than 1,000 people from the international community met in China in May 2004 for a unique forum on poverty reduction. The Shanghai Conference on Poverty Reduction, and the nine-month learning process that preceded it, provided an opportunity for participants to identify development successes and failures and to jointly explore ways to build on success.
Participants from developing and developed countries, including heads of state and representatives from civil society and the private sector, discussed some 100 case studies of poverty reduction projects. They identified development solutions that work, that endure, and that can be applied around the world to meet the Millennium Development Goals. The conference made it clear that the global community has the knowledge and resources to meet the goals, but that redoubled action is needed to deliver better lives for the world's poor.
As the review of the Millennium Summit in
2005	approaches, and with only a decade left until the target date of 2015, moving forward with the lessons learned in Shanghai is essential. (See also “Capacity Enhancement" in chapter 5.)
The Bank has also launched more than 50 investment climate surveys. (See “Supporting Private Sector Development” in chapter 3.)
Investing in Poor People and Empowering Them to Participate in Development
The capabilities of poor people can be increased by widening their access to key services and by fostering social inclusion. Better access to quality education and health care expands opportunities for poor people to improve their own well-being. Access to social protection is also important—well-targeted safety nets protect poor and vulnerable people from the unforeseen shocks and dislocations that accompany necessary reforms. To be effective, the strategy must also include mechanisms that foster poor people’s participation in decisions that affect them. Cutting across this agenda is the empowerment of women, achieved by removing barriers to their fuller participation in the development process. Data gathered since 1993 show that citizens are increasingly participating in processes that can influence policy making and hold their leaders accountable. (See figure 1.4.)
ACTING ON COUNTRY PRIORITIES
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is the business plan that guides Bank activities in a client country. The Bank tailors its strategy to the country’s needs. Various
approaches are developed for low-income countries, low-income countries under stress (LICUS), and middle-income countries.
Country Assistance Strategies
The CAS is based on a country’s own vision for development. It contains a diagnosis of proposed policies and outlines the Bank’s program to support the vision. Oriented toward results, the strategy is prepared in consultation with country authorities, development partners, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders. It is the central tool used by the Bank’s management and Board of Executive Directors to review
and guide the Bank’s country programs, and it is a vehicle for gauging the impact of the Bank’s work.
During fiscal 2004 the Bank aligned Country Assistance Strategies and Progress Reports for IDA-borrowing members with country-owned poverty reduction strategies in Armenia, Benin, Bolivia, Cameroon, Chad, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique, Pakistan, Vietnam, and Zambia. It also prepared Country Assistance Strategies and Progress Reports for several IBRD- and blend-borrowing countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Indonesia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Mexico, Nigeria, Paraguay, the Slovak Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, and Ukraine.
In fiscal 2004 the Board discussed six Transitional Support Strategies (TSS) for postconflict settings, including the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Congo, Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro, and the West Bank and Gaza, and a TSS update for Comoros.
It also prepared an Interim Strategy Note for Iraq. As part of its work to engage low-income countries under stress, the Bank prepared Country Re-engagement Notes for Liberia and Sudan. In fiscal 2004,15 Country Assistance Strategies and CAS Progress Reports were prepared jointly with IFC. All of the 38 fiscal 2004 CAS documents have been or are in the process of being disclosed to the public.
The Bank is paying particular attention to improving the results orientation of Country Assistance Strategies. Following the first pilot CAS based on a results framework—for Sri Lanka, in fiscal 2003—the Board discussed six additional pilot strategies—for
Armenia, Brazil, Cameroon, Mozambique, Ukraine, and Zambia—in fiscal 2004. Each pilot drew lessons from the completion report for the previous CAS, which evaluated the extent to which results had been achieved. (The Bank’s Operations Evaluation Department reviews these completion reports.
See chapter 4.)
Low-Income Countries
Reducing poverty is particularly difficult in low-income countries, where the incidence of poverty is high, the institutional constraints are severe, the investment climate may not be conducive to sustainable growth, and access to resources is limited.
A key tool in the Bank’s support for low-income countries is the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), introduced at the end of calendar 1999. PRSPs are country-authored, results-oriented, comprehensive plans based on broad consultation with internal and external partners and stakeholders. Intended to serve as the framework for domestic policies and cross-sectoral
programs that reduce poverty, they are the basis for development aid, including IDA financing. During the process of developing the strategy papers, countries identify their special circumstances and needs. The Bank plays an active role in helping clients strengthen the role of stakeholders in this process. (See “Reducing Poverty and Improving Economic Management” in chapter 3.) The Bank also encourages countries to integrate the Millennium Development Goals into their strategy papers, considering the cross-sectoral actions needed to achieve the goals. This approach will help ensure that country strategies address the trade-offs inherent in achieving the MDGs.
The PRSP process can be complex and time consuming. To ensure that it does not prevent IDA concessional lending or Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt relief from reaching low-income countries, the Bank introduced interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. These PRSPs use a simpler format, and can thus be prepared more quickly, than full PRSPs.
PRSP-based IDA assistance to low-income countries includes Poverty Reduction Support Credits, which support country-owned poverty-reduction priorities. These credits focus on building government capacity and institutions, particularly capacity and institutions that serve poor people. This fiscal year the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved nine such credits for eight countries.
A new PRSP-linked results measurement system has been proposed for use during the 14th Replenishment of IDA (IDA14, fiscal years 2006-08). It will measure results in terms of both aggregate country outcomes and IDA’s contribution to country outcomes. The new measurement system is designed to reflect the priorities of national poverty reduction strategies, to be linked to the MDGs, to show aggregated results in IDA countries, and to assess IDA’s contribution to development results.
The IDA14 replenishment will be a key instrument in helping low-income countries meet the MDGs.
Since IDA funds typically disburse over a period of about 8 years, the IDA14 funds will be an important factor as the year 2015 approaches. (See also “IDA Resources” in chapter 5.)
Low-Income Countries under Stress
Low-income countries under stress are the world’s most fragile states, characterized by weak policies, institutions, and governance and often by internal conflict. Child mortality in these countries is twice as high as in other low-income countries, and the death rate from malaria is three times as high. Some 500 million of the world’s poorest people live in these countries,
which often lack the capacity to use finance effectively to reduce poverty.
The LICUS Initiative is a new approach to engagement in these countries. It anchors its strategies in strong political and economic analysis, promoting domestic demand and capacity for change, supporting simple entry-level reforms, and strengthening social service delivery mechanisms.
Since the initiative was launched in 2002, the Bank’s Board has discussed 7 LICUS country strategies, and 13 LICUS teams have started to develop innovative country approaches. These approaches include activities that improve transparency in the management of oil revenue in Angola, support the provision of basic public goods in Somalia, and build leadership capacity in Sudan. Analytical services to these countries increased, with in-country missions undertaken in all the countries currently in arrears on their outstanding loans. The Bank is also improving its ability to measure country performance at the bottom of the performance spectrum by revising its Country Policy and
Institutional Assessment and the Post-Conflict Progress Indicators.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank increased staffing resources for work on these countries and created a $25 million trust fund. The fund, which will focus on countries that lack access to regular IDA financing, is helping these countries implement early reforms.
Donor partnerships are critical to success in low-income countries under stress. The Bank has developed a new tool—the transitional results framework—to foster an integrated approach that includes peace building and support for economic, social, and institutional recovery in postconflict situations. Joint efforts are under way with the United Nations and bilateral donors to use this approach in the Central African Republic, Haiti, Liberia, and Timor-Leste.
The Bank and other donors have also supported the establishment of a learning and advisory group within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee. The new group is undertaking a strong program of policy research on aid allocation, delivery mechanisms, and donor coordination issues in these countries.
Middle-Income Countries
Despite numerous advances, poverty and social challenges still exist in many middle-income countries, where hundreds of millions of poor people live. These countries face many development hurdles: promoting
high and sustained growth in order to provide productive employment, reducing poverty while reducing inequality, reducing the volatility of access to private financial markets while developing safety nets to cushion the impact of volatility, and strengthening the institutional and governance structures that underpin viable market-based economies. Supporting progress in these areas enables the Bank to significantly increase its contribution to the global development agenda, particularly the MDGs.
The Bank helps middle-income countries through a combination of knowledge, lending, and financial services tailored to each country’s specific needs and circumstances. The Bank is attempting to increase the value of services to middle-income countries by ensuring that its Country Assistance Strategies better respond to their diverse needs and that countries can take advantage of the increased flexibility of the Bank’s financial offerings. By supporting policy and institutional reforms, the Bank also plays a catalytic role in attracting private sector investment as well as support from other development partners.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank conducted a review of its work with middle-income countries, recognizing that it may have missed significant opportunities to support their growth and poverty reduction efforts. (See “Innovations in Lending” in chapter 5.) It approved and began to implement an action plan for enhancing services to middle-income countries. The goals of the
plan are to reestablish the Bank as the partner of choice in development knowledge and finance for middle-income countries, and to play a more proactive role in working with other partners to support development and reduce poverty. Implementation will continue in fiscal 2005.
Activities include strengthening partnerships with bilateral donors, improving the quality and timeliness of the Bank’s knowledge services and response to clients by removing a number of internal Bank obstacles, building increased flexibility into Country Assistance Strategies that will enable staff to respond to new lending opportunities, developing and promoting new financial products such as local currency lending, and working with IFC and MIGA to better exploit potential synergies, particularly in supporting investment in infrastructure and other sectors through public-private partnerships.
WORKING WITH PARTNERS
The Bank’s policy is to operate jointly with partners when addressing major development issues in both global and country program activities. It works closely with the IMF, other multilateral development banks, governments, the United Nations and its agencies, OECD’s Development Assistance Committee, bilateral donors, the World Trade Organization, and civil society organizations.
mn
As a global development institution with broad coverage of countries and issues, the Bank often plays a global strategic role in providing what more specialized agencies cannot because of their smaller size or narrower mandate. In carrying out its partnership activities, the Bank plays different roles—leader, follower, adviser, helper, and so on—depending on the need.
At the global level, the Bank is working closely with its development partners to improve aid coordination by integrating poverty reduction efforts. (See “Simplifying and Harmonizing Policies and Procedures” in chapter 4.)
In countries, the Bank is committed to strengthening its emphasis on effective development results. A new poverty report and booklet—both entitled Partnerships in Development: Progress in the Fight against Poverty, 2004—highlight this focus. The report aims to provide a more comprehensive assessment of how the Bank works with other organizations to help countries achieve the vision of poverty reduction embodied in the MDGs and the Monterrey Consensus. Using country examples, the publications highlight the broad range of activities the Bank pursues to promote growth and reduce poverty in its multiple dimensions.
Partnerships in Development shows how the Bank is helping clients develop broadly supported poverty reduction strategies in Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sierra Leone. It describes how the Bank is addressing specific problems related to the lack of opportunity, voice, and
security in Bolivia, Columbia, India, Latvia, Uganda, and Vietnam. A spotlight on Niger shows one way in which the Bank is working more closely with its partners to achieve better development results. The booklet is available on the Bank’s Web site, at www.worldbank.org/progress; the report is available at www.worldbank.org/poverty.
SHARING INFORMATION
The Bank’s Public Information Centers disseminate development-related information and documentation on World Bank operations and research to the public. The goal is to encourage dialogue, to enable people to make informed decisions on matters that affect their livelihood, and to encourage them to participate in their country’s development. These centers facilitate the production of documents in local languages, and they develop and maintain Web sites in local languages. Through public lectures, seminars, workshops, and Web casts, the Bank and partner institutions worldwide make information on economic and social development widely available. Public Information Centers operate in about 70 capital cities, with more than 60 satellite centers in some 80 countries. By 2005 centers will be located in every country in which the World Bank operates.
Africa
Several African countries have made remarkable progress in recent years. But the challenges the continent must address to meet the Millennium Development Goals remain immense. Africa is home to 32 of the 48 poorest countries in the world, and the proportion of poor people on the continent is growing.
In many respects Africa remains at the margins of globalization. Its share of world exports dropped from more than 3.5 percent in 1970 to about
1.4	percent by the end of 2002, a decline that represents an income loss of $160 billion annually. Despite being home to 11 percent of the world’s population, Africa accounts for only about 1 percent of global gross domestic product (GDP), receives 0.6 percent of the world’s total foreign direct investment, and accounts for just 1 percent of the world’s Internet subscribers. With the African population growing at an average rate of 3 percent a year, GDP growth of 5 percent is needed just to keep the number of poor people from rising. But many factors, including the HIV/AIDS pandemic, stand in the way of achieving this level of economic growth.
(See box 2.1.)
The World Bank is the largest provider of development assistance to Africa, where it supports projects that contribute to economic growth and to meeting the Millennium Development Goals. Its strategic objectives in the region are in line with priorities identified by African governments through the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper process. The Bank’s work in Africa is based on partnerships with African countries and builds on the vision of African leaders as articulated in the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). It is anchored in the Strategic Framework for Assistance to Africa and the findings of the study Can Africa
Claim the 21st Century? The Bank also chairs the Strategic Partnership for Africa. It participated as a co-organizer in the third Tokyo International Conference on African Development, held in September
2003.	The landmark session marked the 10th anniversary of the conference and was aimed at ensuring that regional priorities are fully addressed in harmony with the approach of NEPAD.
As of June 2004 the Bank was funding 334 projects in Africa, with a net commitment of
BOX 2.1 FIGHTING THE HIV/AIDS PANDEMIC IN AFRICA
Africa remains the region most affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In 2003 an estimated 25 million people in the region were living with HIV, including 3 million who became infected in
2003.	AIDS killed approximately 2.2 million Africans the same year.
Since late 2000 the Bank has provided more than $1 billion to 28 countries and two subregional projects through its Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa. More than 27,000 subprojects from civil society organizations and communities have received grants for HIV/AIDS. Over $80 million has been allocated for various capacity enhancement activities, and about $150 million has been committed to public health agencies. In June 2004 the Bank approved a $60 million Treatment Acceleration Program. Its pilot phase will, from September
2004,	provide grants for innovative public, private, and civil society partnerships in HIV/ AIDS treatment in Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Mozambique.
$16.6 billion, or 41 percent of IDA commitments worldwide. The medium- to long-term objective is to direct 50 percent of all new IDA commitments to Africa. During fiscal 2004, 45 percent of new IDA commitments went to Africa.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
To sustain growth and eventually achieve economies of scale, African countries must reach regional and world markets. But growth is held back by the trade barriers and subsidies in the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Africa’s greatest comparative advantage is in agriculture, but the $325 billion in annual subsidies to agriculture in OECD countries make it difficult for Africa to compete. These subsidies—equivalent to the combined GDP of all African countries—cost West African cotton producers about $250 million a year.
The Bank is promoting several initiatives that seek to sustain growth and diversify the African economy. It is supporting policy and institutional reforms to improve the investment climate and make Africa a good business destination. It has worked with regional institutions to formulate regional integration strategies that promote the liberalization of intraregional trade, the harmonization of macroeconomic policies, capacity building for regional institutions, the growth of capital markets, and the building of regional infrastructure, including transportation corridors. The demands are enormous: Africa’s infrastructure needs alone are estimated at about $18 billion a year.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
One key to reducing poverty is investing in people— by improving access to education and health services and providing other social interventions that benefit vulnerable groups.
The Bank is funding 37 education projects in Africa, totaling $1.5 million. Many of these projects support countries’ efforts to attain universal primary education, for girls as well as boys, by 2015. Some of the projects seek to improve access to secondary and tertiary education. More progress must be made to raise the level of secondary school enrollment in Africa from barely 25 percent of the age group to the 60 percent level achieved in developing countries generally.
c. 1960. A World Bank loan to Kenya helped settlers create individually owned small holdings to replace tribal systems of cultivation.
The Bank also has increased its commitment to protecting human capital by supporting the reform of pension programs and skills training for men and women in the African labor force.
IMPROVING GOVERNANCE AND RESOLVING CONFLICT
Civil wars lower per capita GDP by 2.2 percent a year, on average, and divert scarce development resources
Umm Bedda Water Supply, Omdurman, Sudan.
to defense and security spending. Reducing conflict is thus consistent with the Bank’s goal of increasing growth and alleviating poverty. During fiscal 2004 the Bank increased support to African countries emerging or recovering from conflict, a group that includes 8 of the 10 poorest African countries.
The Bank is engaged in 44 projects in 7 postconflict countries. These countries received $490 million in grants from the Post-Conflict Fund. Bank-supported projects in this area address the profound political and economic development failures that trigger such conflicts. They also aim to improve the management of revenue from resources such as oil and diamonds, which often fund African conflicts. The Bank is addressing conflict prevention while tackling the challenges of postconflict reconstruction and peace consolidation.
PROVIDING DEBT RELIEF AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
The Bank increased debt relief in fiscal 2004 and encouraged policy makers to invest the freed-up funds in poverty reduction programs, including programs to combat HIV/AIDS. One more African country reached the decision point (the point at which the amount of debt relief is determined and interim debt relief begins) in fiscal 2004, and three others reached the completion point (the point at which donor countries provide all of the remaining debt relief promised at the decision point). Through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, these countries will receive total debt relief with a net present value of almost $4 billion. This relief is expected to reduce the ratio of debt service to GDP in these countries from 3.4 percent in 1998 to 1.7 percent during 2004.
East Asia and Pacific
The increasingly integrated economies of the East Asia and Pacific region are growing at a solid pace, which is improving economic opportunities for the region’s 1.9 billion people.
Fueled by growing exports, low interest rates, and high investment in China, Thailand, and Vietnam, East Asia’s economy is expected to grow by more than 7 percent in 2004—the strongest growth since the beginning of the global slowdown in early 2000. This strong recovery bodes well for an estimated 49 million of the region’s poor, whose incomes are projected to rise above the $2-a-day poverty line.
China has been the driver of regional growth; its imports surged 40 percent in 2003. Intraregional trade still accounts for about 70 percent of the growth in exports of East Asia’s developing economies, as it has since 2002. But this trend will likely slow as current rapid growth rates in China level off.
The rest of the world is also paying more attention to East Asia’s successful growth. Foreign direct investment continues to grow, and net portfolio flows to the five postcrisis economies—Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—are also estimated to have risen to around $33 billion in calendar 2003. Net foreign exchange reserves of East Asian developing economies now stand at over $1 trillion.
The region’s rapid growth, structural shifts, and demographic changes have increased demand for natural resources. Sustainable management will be a key condition for improving the quality of people’s lives and enhancing the opportunities of future generations to share the benefits of economic development.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
To assist this diverse region, the World Bank has tailored its approaches to country circumstances while working toward a set of five regional objectives:
■	Achieving high rates of growth
■	Improving global and intraregional integration
■	Enhancing social stability
■	Reducing poverty, improving health, and expanding education
■	Reducing corruption and improving governance
Lending to support these objectives reached $2.57 billion ($907 million in IDA and $1.67 billion in IBRD) during fiscal 2004. Establishing good governance—reducing corruption, strengthening financial management, creating effective legal and judicial systems, stopping the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources, and strengthening corporate governance—continues to be a challenge. The Bank is addressing this challenge through its projects, research, and advisory services. New Country Assistance Strategies were formulated for Indonesia and Mongolia. Mongolia’s was based on the country’s own poverty reduction strategy. The Bank also updated its Country Assistance Strategy for Vietnam.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Indonesia’s new Country Assistance Strategy demonstrates how the Bank is working to build the climate for investment in East Asia while addressing governance challenges that hamper development. The Bank is supporting Indonesia in its efforts to maintain a stable economy and create stronger financial and private sectors, build infrastructure,
and create income opportunities for poor households and farmers. Because governance reforms are essential to raising investment and improving the quality of services, the Bank’s program in Indonesia focuses on improving the quality, responsiveness, and accountability of public institutions, giving preference to local governments willing to adopt more transparent and more efficient practices.
Infrastructure played a central role in East Asia’s development, as evidenced in Japan; Hong Kong; Korea; Singapore; Taiwan, China; and more recently, mainland China and Vietnam. Sound economic policies and investments in power, transportation, water supply, telecommunications, education, and health services accounted for East Asia’s initial success in reducing poverty. In fiscal 2004 the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation launched a joint study to assess infrastructure needs in the region and examine ways to rebuild the climate for infrastructure investment, particularly by harnessing the private sector.
To engage the corporate sector, the Bank is working with the Hills Program on Governance to promote best corporate practices in the region. The program has established two Hills Centers—in Manila and Seoul— to foster good corporate governance through advocacy, research, and training. Improving the livability of cities is a key issue for both investment and development.
In response to the devastation caused by the tropical cyclone Heta, the Bank approved an emergency grant operation for Samoa to help restore and strengthen roads, bridges, and the coastline, and to help make both the natural and built environments more resilient to storms.
EMPOWERING POOR PEOPLE
Programs such as Indonesia’s Kecamatan Development Project have been extremely effective in channeling funds directly to communities to build roads, schools, health clinics, and drinking-water systems. Under the program, which now covers 28,000 villages and about 35 million rural poor, communities determine their needs, design activities, seek technical help, and make informed choices about how to use limited resources. The third phase of the program, approved in fiscal 2004, aims to have local governments compete for program funding as an incentive for better local governance. In the Philippines the $100 million KALAHI Project, which adapts the Indonesian model, began as a pilot project in
c. 1970. Loading rubber at the Port of Singapore, where a World Bank loan of $15 million assisted the construction of additional deep-water berths, a new plant yard and workshop, and cargo handling equipment.
6	communities and has been replicated in more than 1,300 communities across 67 municipalities. In addition to building capacity, these projects build confidence and
Visitors view a booth for a project on disability access at the Country Innovation Day in the Philippines.
BOX 2.2 COUNTRY INNOVATION DAYS
To support community-level work by civil society organizations, the Bank's Development Marketplace organized two Innovation Days in fiscal 2004, one in the Philippines and another in Vietnam. The Philippines Innovation Marketplace, called Pani-bagong Paraan (New Approaches), brought together 117 finalist teams in the Philippines' largest and busiest shopping mall to present their ideas and compete for more than $1.2 million in funding for innovative ways to make services work for the poor. Former President Corazon C. Aquino delivered the keynote address for the competition, which was funded by a dozen donor groups and companies. One of the winners, Recycling War Trash for Peace, aims to turn spent bullets and rocket casings into craft items symbolizing peace, such as bells and gongs. In addition to cleaning up the litter of conflict, the project will provide work for out-of-school youth.
help people influence local governance. In Cambodia the Rural Investment and Local Governance Project is working through the Seila Program to improve local services and community monitoring.
A key feature of the Bank’s strategy in low-income countries is assisting governments in developing poverty reduction strategies. In fiscal 2004 the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Mongolia completed poverty reduction strategies. In Vietnam the Bank is financing its third Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit to support the government’s strategy.
Empowering and giving voice to people are critical for development. In Indonesia the Justice for the Poor Initiative is working to help people understand their rights and strengthen village institutions that settle disputes. For its part, the Bank established Web sites in Chinese, Khmer, and Vietnamese and increased its offerings in Bahasa, Lao, Mongolian, Tetum, Thai, and other languages. In China the Bank is producing a Chinese-language newsletter, and in Cambodia the local press routinely draws stories from the Bank’s Khmer-language newsletter. Public Information Centers now operate in 11 of the region’s country offices. Sixteen provincial information centers in China, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam have been established, with more planned, and local librarians are being trained on the Bank’s operations and policies.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank and the government of Japan launched a new Tokyo Global Development Learning Network Center. The Japan-World Bank
Distance Learning Partnership Project (Tokyo Project), funded by the Japanese government, aims to make a substantial intellectual contribution to the region’s development by making the Tokyo learning center a resource for building capacity throughout the region. By the end of 2004, there will be 20 Global Development Learning Network centers in the East Asia and Pacific region, including at least one in each of the Bank’s key countries. These centers will be able to work on regional integration and knowledge sharing with institutions such as the Association of South East Asian Nations and the Organization for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. (See also box 2.2.)
ADDRESSING GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Bank’s East Asia and Pacific region is focusing activities on the following global priorities.
Combating Communicable Diseases
The Bank acted quickly to assist China and Vietnam after the recent bouts of sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and avian flu. The SARS and Infectious Disease Response Program supports the Chinese government’s efforts to strengthen the capacity of the public health system to prevent infectious diseases and set up alert and response mechanisms to address public health crises. The Bank is also preparing an emergency assistance program that will help Vietnam improve its preparedness for dealing with avian flu. In China the Bank and the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development are cosponsoring a second
tuberculosis control project. The Bank’s new HIV/ AIDS strategy for the region provided input to the Fifteenth International AIDS Conference in Bangkok in July 2004.
Fostering Trade and Regional Integration
East Asia Integrates, a flagship study completed in fiscal 2004, urges policy makers to broaden their approach beyond technical trade policies to emphasize development outcomes and links to social stability. At a joint conference, the Boao Forum for Asia and the Bank agreed on a three-year program of economic studies and promotion of international networks of expertise on Asian economic cooperation and integration.
In addition to its work with China on membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its implications for the financial sector, the Bank is helping Cambodia and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic analyze the impact of trade integration and implement trade policies that promote growth and reduce poverty. It is advising Vietnam on WTO accession issues and is identifying reforms needed for accession. Similar work is under way for the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. In Indonesia the Bank is working on a trade and integration study.
Improving the Environment
The Bank is working with city governments, companies, donors, and civil society organizations through the Clean Air Initiative for Asian Cities to promote innovative ways to improve the air quality of Asian cities, which are among the world’s most polluted.
South Asia
South Asia’s development is at a critical juncture. Economic growth in the region is relatively strong, but human development is uneven, both within and across countries. South Asia has the world’s highest illiteracy rate (45 percent), and the region accounts for one-third of all maternal deaths in the world. Given South Asia’s size, reducing poverty and achieving the Millennium Development Goals in the region will be critical to achieving the goals worldwide.
Along with East Asia, South Asia is playing an increasingly important role in the global recovery. Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by more than 6 percent during calendar year 2003, and the outlook for continued growth remains positive. India, which accounts for 77 percent of GDP in the region, grew by 6.8 percent in 2003, with agricultural output rising and productivity—propelled by the service industry—increasing. GDP rose about 5.5 percent in Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
The signing of a free trade agreement by South Asian countries in January 2004 is providing new opportunities for economic integration. But the need to develop infrastructure within and between countries and to identify regulators and service providers is constraining the ability of the private sector to respond to the new trading environment.
The growing rapprochement between India and Pakistan has renewed hopes in the region and should positively affect economic performance. However, concerns about the possibility of violence undermining the development process remain vivid across parts of the region: for example, the security situation in Afghanistan remains volatile; and the
unstable security and political situation in Nepal is stalling further development there.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank lent $3.4 billion to South Asia in fiscal 2004. To help improve the investment climate, the Bank is assisting countries with policy reforms, drawing on an extensive program of analytical work delivered in the form of studies, workshops, policy notes, and policy dialogue. The Bank is investing in infrastructure and leveraging private sector investments, as well as helping countries meet the Millennium Development Goals by supporting efforts to improve service delivery in health, education, energy, water supply, and sanitation.
The Bank discussed a new Country Assistance Strategy for Nepal, which recognizes Nepal’s reform program, despite the country’s continued instability, and links the level of assistance to the pace of further reforms. It also approved a $70 million Poverty Reduction Support Credit to help Nepal implement its poverty reduction strategy. The Bank’s Board of Directors discussed a progress report on the Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan, concluding that the country has remained on the ambitious path for fiscal consolidation envisioned in its initial Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (see box 2.3).
Assistance to the region is focusing on sectorwide policy interventions. One example is the $100 million credit to help the province of Punjab in Pakistan address its educational needs. Another is a $55 million public sector capacity-building project that will support Pakistan’s ongoing economic reform program.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Assessments in Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka suggest that inadequate infrastructure is hurting the investment climate. Bureaucracy and excessive rules and regulations also represent bottlenecks, as do the rigid labor markets and lack of access to long-term finance and credit for the private sector.
In Afghanistan two Bank loans are helping the government rebuild the country’s infrastructure.
A $22 million credit is revitalizing telephone lines and the postal service. A $31 million credit will help increase revenue from trade by streamlining customs and transit regulations.
Improving roads and other travel infrastructure is a critical component of the Bank’s work in South Asia. These efforts have had a major impact on reducing poverty by cutting transportation costs and increasing poor people’s access to markets, education, and health care. To increase trade competitiveness in Pakistan, the Bank approved a $200 million loan and credit to revitalize the national highway system. In India a $240 million loan will help reduce transportation constraints by building a bypass to divert traffic from the historic city of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh.
In Nepal a $75.5 million financial sector reform project is expected to help modernize the country’s fragile banking system. The Bank also approved the $220 million Second Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan and Credit for India’s fifth-largest state. That loan will help the state achieve fiscal health and sustainability, strengthen public administration, enhance service delivery, promote private sector development, and create a platform for accelerating reforms.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Central to the Bank’s strategy in the region is the notion that South Asia’s main resource is its people. Bank assistance is geared toward ensuring that the standard of living is improved across the entire spectrum of society and that obstacles that prevent people from participating in development and sharing its benefits are removed. Innovative nonlending work involves an extensive dialogue with counterparts on better ways to target welfare programs.
During fiscal 2004 the Bank expanded its support to microcredit, rural water and sanitation, irrigation, education, and health. In Pakistan it lent $238 million to the Poverty Alleviation Fund, an autonomous institution created by the government, to expand the fund’s earlier efforts. A similar initiative in Nepal is expected to bring much-needed credit to poor communities in rural areas. The Bank also approved a $181 million credit to bring sustainable drinking water and sanitation to poor people in the Indian state of Maharashtra, a $64.7 million credit to improve access to basic social and economic infrastructure services to North East areas of Sri Lanka, a $40 million credit to bring safe water to rural communities in Afghanistan, and a $25.3 million credit to support rural water supply and sanitation in Nepal.
In education the Bank awarded a $500 million credit to help India attain its goals of universal
BOX 2.3 IMPORTANT BENEFITS ARE BEGINNING TO EMERGE FROM THE PRSP PROCESS
Countries in South Asia are making significant progress in developing Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs), where they are increasingly perceived as useful vehicles for national planning and decision making. Three countries—Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka—have completed full PRSPs that have been discussed with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund. All three countries have received Poverty Reduction Support Credits.
The shift to a programmatic approach to lending through Poverty Reduction Support Credits has made it easier for IDA and other donors to align their assistance with countries' own priorities in different sectors, as elaborated in the PRSPs. Assistance through Poverty Reduction Support Credits— which includes strengthening the capacity to monitor public expenditure—promotes a performance-based approach that benefits the countries' entire investment program. The PRSP process is also helping harmonize donor lending.
elementary school enrollment and completion. The loan represents the Bank’s first sectorwide program for India. The Bank also provided a $150 million credit to help Bangladesh develop primary education. This innovative sectorwide project is supported jointly by $504 million from the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank, and eight other donors in an attempt by the donor community to respond with one voice to a national development issue. The Bank also approved a $31 million credit to Bhutan to expand access to primary and secondary education.
In Afghanistan a $95 million credit is helping strengthen the National Solidarity Program, which supports local governance and provides communities with resources for reconstruction and development activities. In Sri Lanka a $51 million credit is helping the rural poor improve their livelihood and quality of life.
The Bank is supporting a health system project in the state of Rajasthan, in India, with an $89 million credit. In Sri Lanka a $60 million credit will help the government implement its health sector strategy.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL PRIORITIES
More than 5 million people in South Asia are currently living with HIV/AIDS. Throughout the region the prevalence of HIV/AIDS among the general population is believed to be low, but rates are much higher among subpopulations that engage in high-risk behaviors.
And despite low overall prevalence rates, India has one of the largest numbers of people with HIV/AIDS in the world. The Bank has stepped up its assistance to national programs working to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS among highly vulnerable subpopulations, young people, and the general population in South Asia. In addition, it is facilitating dialogue among countries to share lessons learned and good practices of intervention.
Recognizing that development in the region can be achieved only through inclusion and participation, the Bank is completing gender assessments in Afghanistan, Nepal, and Pakistan. Similar assessments are under way in other countries. These assessments involve substantial analytical work and dialogue aimed at better understanding what kinds of policies may lead to greater gender balance in the countries’ development.
Europe and Central Asia
The Europe and Central Asia region remains very diverse in terms of poverty, human development, and individual country prospects for attaining the Millennium Development Goals. At one end of the spectrum, ten Bank member countries—the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, the Slovak Republic, and Slovenia—joined the European Union (EU) May 1,
2004.	Four of these EU accession countries are members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as is Turkey. Slovenia moved from World Bank borrower to donor status on March 17, 2004.
At the other end of the spectrum, more than half the population in some of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) lives in poverty, which stems in part from geographic isolation and lack of integration into the global economy.
Growth in the region was strong in 2003, with output increasing at an average rate of 6.5 percent. Output rose 3.9 percent in the EU accession countries, 4.3 percent in South Eastern Europe, and 7.9 percent in the CIS. Twelve countries in the region grew more than 5 percent, while no country experienced a decline in output.
Further integration into Europe is likely to provide an impetus for reform in the EU accession countries and South Eastern Europe, which includes countries for which negotiations for EU accession are under way (Bulgaria and Romania), those that are candidates or whose candidacy is under consideration (Turkey and Croatia), and countries in the Western Balkans, for which accession is a longer-term prospect. The CIS countries face an unfinished
agenda relating to building the institutions of a market economy and diversifying their economies. The development of natural resources and the performance of the Russian economy are likely to be key drivers of growth for these countries.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
Lending during fiscal year 2004 reached $3.6 billion, ($3 billion in IBRD lending and $546 million in IDA credits). Analytical and advisory services included 186 reports and 58 technical assistance activities. Use of programmatic and cross-sectoral
BOX 2.4 THE BANK'S PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH TO NONLENDING ACTIVITY
The Bank is increasingly taking a programmatic approach to nonlending activity in the Europe and Central Asia region. In the Russian Federation it is engaged—with high-level Russian counterparts and in partnership with the United Kingdom's Department for International Development—in a multiyear program of analytical and capacity-building work on poverty. The program is designed to be completed in two phases and to produce a series of timely outputs to meet the needs of both the government and the Bank. Phase one, completed in December 2003, significantly increased capacity in survey methods and policy analysis. It opened up access to household survey data sets and made concrete recommendations on how to improve survey data. A collaborative Poverty Assessment Report is planned for 2004.
(See www.worldbank.org/eca/ knowledgefair.)
instruments—Programmatic Adjustment Loans in IBRD countries and Poverty Reduction Support Credits in IDA countries—increased in an attempt to better support reforms.
This programmatic approach also carried over into nonlending services. (See box 2.4 on page 41.) The Bank developed Country Assistance Strategies for Armenia, Lithuania, Macedonia, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, and Ukraine; and Transition Support Strategies for Kosovo and Serbia and Montenegro. The strategies for Armenia and Serbia and Montenegro were accompanied by Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). PRSP Progress Reports were submitted for Albania, Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan.
Individual Country Assistance Strategies also recognize the diversified needs of the subregions. In the poor countries of the CIS, the emphasis is on supporting sound economic management and private sector-led growth, promoting human development and equity, and improving governance. In the EU accession countries, the focus is increasingly on investments to enhance the benefits of accession and knowledge services. In South Eastern Europe and the larger countries of the CIS (Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine), the emphasis is on supporting growth with equity and improvements in governance—in the context of a wider EU agenda where relevant. Throughout the region, where issues go beyond the borders of a single country, as they do in the case of communicable diseases, water resources, trade and investment regimes, energy markets, and regulatory frameworks, the Bank is taking a multicountry approach.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The region’s strong economic performance is a testament to improvements in the business climate— improvements that are confirmed in part by firm-level survey data. The perception of corruption as an obstacle to business has declined significantly in some countries since 1999. But in seven countries, investors continue to perceive corruption as a serious problem, and in two countries that perception has worsened significantly.
Support for the investment climate depends on country needs. In Ukraine the Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan focuses on regulatory reform, creating and protecting property rights, and improving public sector accountability. In Turkey the Second Export Finance Intermediation Loan aims to provide working capital to facilitate export growth while improving quality, safety, and access to finance in the private financial sector. It follows a first loan, which successfully provided medium- and long-term funding to banks and export companies, whose exports grew 11-40 percent a year during the project period.
The Bank is also supporting the investment climate through nonlending activities. It has completed Investment Climate Assessments in the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Poland, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan. In conjunction with the International Monetary Fund, the Bank continued its Financial Sector Assessment Program in Azerbaijan, Macedonia, and Romania.
HIV/AIDS is spreading more quickly in Europe and Central Asia than in any other region of the world. In 2003 it claimed some 30,000 lives, and an estimated 230,000 people became infected, bringing the total number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the region to an estimated 1.5 million.
The Bank has also undertaken analytical work on the knowledge economy in Latvia, Poland, and Turkey.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Human development indicators in Europe and Central Asia are generally strong, but the quality of public services has deteriorated. As a result, many of the Millennium Development Goals will probably not be met, particularly in the region’s poorer countries.
To address the problem, several Bank operations focus on improving public services. The second Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit in Albania supports improved access to and quality of education and health services. It follows the first credit, which improved the policy on textbooks and reversed the sharp decline in operations and maintenance expenditures that had contributed to a deterioration of facilities. The Kyrgyz Village Improvement Project and the Second Kosovo
Community Development Fund Project empower local communities to demand improvements in service delivery and to assist in implementing changes. The Bank has also helped raise awareness of poverty and human development outcomes for the Roma, the largest and most vulnerable minority in Central and Eastern Europe. (See www.worldbank.org/eca/ecshd.)
ADDRESSING GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Bank’s efforts in Europe and Central Asia focus on several global priorities.
Education for All
Albania is the only country in the region eligible for the Education for AH Fast-Track Initiative. The Bank has helped several other countries, including Moldova and Tajikistan, to meet the requirements for eligibility, but the availability of funding remains in question. As many as eight other countries in the region may need help meeting the Education for All goal.
HIV/AIDS
Together with its partners, the Bank has been at the forefront of raising awareness of HIV/AIDS in the region and helping countries address the problem.
A regional support strategy and subregional studies were completed for Poland and the Baltics, South Eastern Europe, and Central Asia, and a policy note was written on Georgia. In collaboration with the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the Bank developed a Directory of Technical and Managerial Resources to improve access to technical advice for HIV/AIDS programs in the region (www.cee-trd.unaids.org). Work is under way on a study of HIV/AIDS in the Western Balkans, and a multicountry project on HIV/AIDS in Central Asia, and Bank-supported projects are being implemented in Moldova, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine.
Water Supply and Sanitation
Access to water supply and sanitation in the Europe and Central Asia region is relatively good, but systems are often poorly maintained, compromising quality and reliability. The Bank program of assistance addresses the sustainability of water supply and sanitation systems. A new strategy for delivering infrastructure services addresses the different policy challenges in the subregions of Europe and Central Asia.
c. 1956. A drainage canal regulates water supplies in the Catania Plain as part of the Cassa Per II Mezzogiorno project in Southern Italy, which included irrigation, roads, power and industry, and better housing.
Environmental Sustainability
During fiscal 2004 the Bank undertook new analytical work to help define and measure the environmental
targets contained in the Millennium Development Goals. It also began implementing new projects to enhance energy efficiency in Croatia, Moldova, and Serbia and Montenegro; develop renewable energy sources in Turkey; and rehabilitate irrigation systems in Romania.
Latin America and the Caribbean
The World Bank serves 30 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, a region of staggering diversity. The region is home to 525 million people, who speak Spanish, Portuguese, English, French, and some 400 indigenous languages. Three-quarters of the region’s people live in and around cities, making it the most urbanized region in the developing world. Natural resources and agriculture are nevertheless important to the region’s economies. Despite immense resources and dynamic societies, deep poverty and gaping inequality persist in the region.
Modest growth returned to Latin America and the Caribbean in 2003, with regional gross domestic product (GDP) growing by an average of 1.3 percent, after contracting 0.8 percent in 2002. Argentina continued recovering rapidly from the acute crisis that hit the country in 2001. Brazil, Mexico, and Uruguay shared in the broadening of economic recovery. Central America grew at an average rate of
3.1	percent. The Andean countries also performed well, with growth exceeding 3 percent in Chile, Colombia, and Peru. Elsewhere performance was less encouraging. Ongoing political uncertainties caused the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela’s economy to deteriorate further in the first half of calendar 2003, and continued fiscal difficulties and external challenges caused the Caribbean to grow less rapidly than the region as a whole.
The external environment for Latin America and the Caribbean improved significantly in 2003. With investor confidence returning and domestic conditions improving, gross private financial inflows in
2003	increased by 40 percent over 2002. Net foreign
direct investment, however, continued its decline, falling from a peak of $88 billion in 1999 to an estimated $36 billion in 2003. Exports from the region grew 9.2 percent—after rising just 2.2 percent in 2002—and the region’s current account deficit fell to 0.5 percent of GDP, down from
4.5	percent in 1998. Tourism revenues and workers’ remittances also improved, and commodity prices were generally strong.
Growth and investment have improved in the region, but poverty remains pervasive. Poverty rates have stagnated in the region as a whole and increased markedly in Argentina, Uruguay, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela. A Bank study released in 2003—Inequality in Latin America: Breaking with History?—showed that income, assets, voice, and access to basic services, education, and opportunities are highly unequal in the region and that this inequality reduces the positive impact of growth on poverty reduction.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank addresses inequality in the region by targeting the poorest areas and supporting measures to empower excluded groups. Its support in the region uses the full range of instruments, including innovative financial instruments such as the deferred drawdown option in Chile and local currency options in Mexico. New Country Assistance Strategies for Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Paraguay are breaking new ground for Bank support to the region through closer alignment with clients’ needs and priorities, more flexible lending instruments, and a stronger focus on results.
Bank lending to Latin America and the Caribbean reached $5.3 billion in fiscal 2004
($5 billion in IBRD lending and $338 million in IDA credits). Major loans included $1 billion to Brazil for social protection and sustainable and equitable growth, $750 million to Argentina for maternal and child health, and $303 million to Mexico for integrated irrigation modernization.
The Bank’s analytical and advisory support to the region included studies of trade-related issues, research on innovation (development of intellectual capital) in selected countries, and a range of technical assistance efforts, such as urban management training for public officials in Colombia. The Bank proposed a new development strategy for Mexico’s southern states, published a report on Caribbean youth development, provided policy advice for Jamaica on achieving sustained growth, and developed a guide for Latin American mayors on how to implement urban crime and violence prevention programs.
Nicaragua and Guyana both reached the completion point (see page 6) under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in fiscal 2004, allowing them to benefit from debt relief with a net present value of about $3.3 billion in Nicaragua and $335 million in Guyana.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The Bank is assisting countries throughout the region in their efforts to improve the investment climate and strengthen growth and competitiveness. In Brazil the Bank is supporting the new government’s economic reforms with a $505 million programmatic loan.
The reforms aim to reduce logistical costs; enhance the business environment; improve the efficiency, access, and soundness of the financial sector; and increase technological progress and innovation.
The Bank provided a $150 million loan to Peru to support the government’s decentralization and competitiveness program. The loan will enable the authorities to modernize ports, roads, and other infrastructure, thereby promoting foreign investment and economic growth.
The Bank is supporting Nicaragua’s poverty reduction strategy with a $70 million IDA credit to promote human capital, build public institutions, and strengthen growth and competitiveness.
Bank assistance is facilitating trade and enhancing productivity in Peru and Honduras, helping to increase
One of 400 microenterprises created under a World Bank-lnter-American Development Bank rural road project, with the participation of men and women from poor rural communities, performs routine maintenance on a rural road in the Peruvian Sierra.
access to water in Paraguay, and strengthening regulation in the transportation sector in Brazil. Other loans to the region are described in the Summaries of Operations Approved on the enclosed CD-ROM.
As part of its analytical and diagnostic work, the Bank is carrying out Investment Climate Assessments to help identify reform priorities in each country in the region. It has completed, or nearly completed, assessments in Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua and has
BOX 2.5 HELPING SMALL RURAL COMMUNITIES IN HONDURAS THROUGH A ROAD PROJECT
A road project in Honduras is helping small rural communities create productive employment and maintain the country's infrastructure. Under a $66.5 million IDA credit, the project has created 50 microenterprises and trained their personnel to repair potholes, clear landslides, and maintain road shoulders, signals, and bridges. The 50 firms maintain 2,300 kilometers of roads—80 percent of Honduras' paved network. The government is expected to institutionalize the program for the entire road network once IDA funding expires in 2004.
Almost 700 small entrepreneurs own the microenterprises, and some 4,160 men, women, and children benefit directly from them. Eighty-two percent of microenterprise members now own a house or are building one and, thanks to an agreement with the Ministry of Education, many of the adult members have become literate after returning to school alongside their children.
launched assessments in Grenada, Jamaica, Mexico, and Paraguay.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
Across the region the Bank is supporting efforts to improve poor people’s access to basic services and increase the participation of excluded groups. In Paraguay the Bank provided $24 million for an education reform project to increase secondary enrollment among the rural poor. In Lima, Peru, a $45 million loan from the Bank is supporting efforts to make the public transportation system more efficient and reliable as well as more accessible to people with disabilities. In Peru and Honduras, Bank projects are helping create microenterprises to provide road maintenance. (See box 2.5).
In response to Argentina’s efforts toward economic recovery and growth, the Bank provided $500 million to help the government address financial and utilities sector reform, government transparency, and private sector competitiveness. In Colombia the Bank provided a $200 million loan for labor reform and social development. In Brazil and Chile the Bank is supporting the governments’ social protection programs including the Bolsa Familia and the Chile Solidario Initiative, which help the poorest households with a $572 million adaptable program loan for Brazil, and a $200 million adjustment loan with a deferred drawdown option and an accompanying $11 million technical assistance loan for Chile.
The Bank also funds initiatives to reach the 30 million indigenous people in the region, about 80 percent of whom are poor. In fiscal 2004 the Bank made a $25 million land administration loan to Honduras that will benefit indigenous populations and people of African descent. In Mexico it provided $21.3 million for a project to help up to 200 indigenous communities and ejidos (communal landholding entities) improve the management and conservation of their forest resources.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL PRIORITIES
The Latin America and the Caribbean region has the potential to achieve many of the Millennium Development Goals. The Bank is helping the region make further progress by investing in basic education in Brazil, Guatemala, Mexico, and Uruguay and in child and maternal health in Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay.
Three boys play on the river in Riberia Azul, Salvador do Bahia, where the Bank is supporting efforts to improve the living conditions of the urban poor.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank provided a $136 million loan to Argentina to help meet the health needs of poor, uninsured mothers and children.
HIV/AIDS poses a serious challenge in the Caribbean, which has the highest adult HIV prevalence rate outside of Africa. The Bank has provided more than $550 million in funding for HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs in Latin America and the Caribbean. Under its AIDS initiative, the Bank
approved grants to the Caribbean Community and to Guyana in fiscal 2004 and helped prepare projects in St. Lucia and in St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Bank support for environmental sustainability in the region comprises 64 active projects totaling about $3.4 billion. These include the Biodiversity Protection Project in Bolivia, the Clean Air Initiative for Latin American Cities, the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, and the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest. In fiscal 2004 the Bank provided $60 million to support sustainable regional development in the Brazilian state of Tocantins.
Middle East and North Africa
The Middle East and North Africa region is an economically diverse area whose economic fortunes over much of the past quarter century have been heavily influenced by the price of oil and by economic policies and structures dominated by the state. The region’s heavy dependence on a few export markets and commodities makes it highly vulnerable to economic volatility. Sustainable and higher growth requires fundamental transformation to more open, more diversified economies in which the private sector plays a larger role.
Unemployment in the region averages more than 15 percent, and it disproportionately affects the young, the better educated, and women. Employing today’s jobless workers and new entrants into the labor market requires the creation of nearly 100 million new jobs over the next two decades—more than double the current number of jobs available in the region.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
In response to the region’s daunting labor market challenge, the Bank has placed employment creation at the core of its strategy. In fiscal 2004 it published four flagship reports—on governance, trade, gender, and employment in the region. The reports call for a transition from public sector-dominated to private sector-led economies, from closed to more open economies, and from volatile, oil-dominated economies to more stable and diversified economies. The transition requires better governance, including greater inclusiveness and accountability, a larger role for women in the public sphere, and improvements in the quality of education.
Bank lending in fiscal 2004 totaled $1.1 billion, which supported 15 projects in 8 countries. These projects supported basic social services delivery to vulnerable groups, agricultural investments, public works enhancement, educational reform, large infrastructure development, and natural resources management.
In addition to lending, the Bank is delivering a wide range of knowledge services that serve as a catalyst for change and policy reforms. Economic and sector reports highlighted the challenges and issues in water management, education, public expenditure management, pensions, and poverty. Gender assessments are also under way in several countries. In response to increasing demand from the region for knowledge transfer, the Bank established a Knowledge Hub in Marseilles, France, to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and learning activities to and from the Middle East and North Africa.
Gulf countries whose high income makes them ineligible for Bank lending have been tapping into the Bank’s knowledge services for three decades through the Reimbursable Technical Assistance Program. In Saudi Arabia the Bank is providing policy advice on public sector reforms, privatization, and small and medium-size enterprise development. Kuwait is drawing on the program for policy advice on reforming education, generating employment, increasing transparency, and fighting corruption. In Bahrain the program has expanded to include the restructuring of fiscal management to prepare the government for the Gulf states’ monetary union in 2010.
In areas affected by conflict, the Bank is addressing emergency needs and helping establish the institutional foundations for long-term development.
In cooperation with the United Nations, the Bank produced a Joint Iraq Needs Assessment, which identified Iraq’s reconstruction and development
requirements in 14 sectors. To help donors channel their resources and coordinate their support for Iraq’s reconstruction, the Bank and the United Nations designed the International Reconstruction Fund Facility, with each organization managing a trust fund. The trust fund administered by the Bank is financing projects on capacity building for Iraqi civil service, education, community-based rural infrastructure, and infrastructure reconstruction.
In the West Bank and Gaza, the Bank maintains a balance between emergency work and medium-term development projects. (See box 2.6.) Since September 2000 approximately $329 million has been disbursed to the Palestinian Authority. Disbursement levels were increased significantly during fiscal 2004 to sustain the Palestinian Authority and slow the decline of economic and social indicators. The Bank’s portfolio in the West Bank and Gaza consists of 15 active projects, including an emergency services support project to sustain education, health, and social services. The Bank also contributed $20 million to the Reform Fund, a general budget support facility established in 2004 at the request of international donors.
The Bank supports countries that have been struck by natural disasters. In the aftermath of the Bam earthquake in December 2003, and at the request of the Iranian government, the Bank sent a team to assess the economic damage and prepare a reconstruction program.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
A World Bank Group Business Road Show in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates brought together people from the private sector to discuss how to boost their investments in the region and develop new business activities. The Bank also sponsored the Second Annual Knowledge for Development Conference. Held in Marseilles, the conference aimed at helping countries develop knowledge-based economies that will enhance their competitiveness and increase trade.
In one of the largest projects in the region, the Bank lent $335 million to the Arab Republic of Egypt to finance the development of airport infrastructure. The project is expected to increase foreign exchange earnings from tourism. To enhance the competitiveness of the private sector, a separate loan is promoting market-driven skills for Egypt’s workers.
To improve public efficiency, the Bank is supporting an ambitious decentralization program adopted by
the government of the Republic of Yemen that gives local authorities greater responsibility in revenue management. The project is expected to promote productive local investments and economic growth.
In Lebanon a Bank project is supporting good governance by improving a land registration system that was disrupted by civil war.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
In response to the socioeconomic realities in the region, the Bank’s strategy focuses on expanding opportunities for poor people through access to better education, health services, social protection, infrastructure, and other areas needed for development. As part of a regional strategy to enhance education, the second phase of an education improvement project in Tunisia is ensuring that education corresponds to the needs of the job market. In the Republic of Yemen, where half of the population lives below the poverty line, the third phase of the Social Fund for Development project is delivering basic services in education, water, health, and social protection to vulnerable groups, such as women and children.
In December 2000 the Bank allocated $23 million from its Emergency Response Project to finance job creation projects in the West Bank and Gaza through civil society organizations (CSOs). By 2003 the CSO Employment Generation Program had created 162,500 employment opportunities. The projects included creating embroidery production units; rehabilitating youth centers, kindergartens, soccer fields, water wells, and houses of poor families; and hiring and training psychological counselors. By
2004	the Palestinian CSO Project, managed by the Welfare Association Consortium, attracted considerable cofinancing and disbursed $5 million to projects aimed at creating jobs, especially in social service delivery.
Financed by the World Bank Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza, an Emergency Water Project will provide a clean, affordable, and consistent water supply by rehabilitating the water supply and distribution system in the West Bank. In response to village surveys revealing that water and access are top priorities for communities, a rural infrastructure project in Morocco is building on the success of a Bank-funded project that increased access to potable water from 18 percent to 40 percent among the rural population. The project will also link remote villages to a network of rural roads.
In Djibouti, one of the poorest countries in the region, the Bank helped the government develop its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, in close consultation with civil society organizations.
ADDRESSING GLOBAL PRIORITIES
During fiscal 2004 the Bank supported activities in the region that addressed two key global priorities: HIV/AIDS, and children and youth.
The level of HIV infection remains low, at just 0.3 percent. But according to a Bank report, HIV/AIDS
in the Middle East and North Africa: The Costs of Inaction, if the current infection rate is left unchecked, by 2025 it could cost the region one-third of today’s gross domestic product. The report urges policy makers to increase surveillance while prevalence is still low. Some countries in the region have already taken action. Tunisia piloted a project for young people that provides education, counseling, and testing. The Islamic Republic of Iran established a needle-exchange program. And Morocco introduced a large-scale plan to upgrade services for treating sexually transmitted diseases.
More than half of the population in the region is under the age of 25. Conflict, an economic downturn, and urban migration have left children and young people vulnerable to dropping out of school and to using drugs. To address these problems, the Bank is integrating consideration of children and young people into all its projects. The Second Basic Education Project in the Republic of Yemen is providing learning opportunities for working children that will not compromise their income opportunities. In Egypt a Child Labor Prevention Grant will help prevent child labor by identifying children at risk and seeking ways to integrate them into schools while supporting their families.
Reducing Poverty and Improving Economic Management
The Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network seeks to expand the knowledge needed to design policies that foster an enabling international environment for economic growth that benefits poor people.
POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPERS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
About 1.1 billion people—one-fifth of the world’s population—live on less than $1 a day. The Bank’s strategy for fighting poverty in low-income countries is based on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) approach (www.worldbank.org/prsp). This approach has resulted in broader country ownership of the poverty reduction agenda as well as improved participation. During fiscal 2004 the Executive Directors considered 12 country-owned full PRSPs and 2 interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs), bringing the total to 42 PRSPs. An additional 14 countries have I-PRSPs. Twenty-three countries have produced at least one Progress Report. (See www.povertynet.org.)
The PRSP process has led to dialogue and openness. It also appears to have spurred spending that aims to benefit poor people. Challenges remain, however, in several areas, including establishing stable participatory processes, developing focused strategies with clear priorities, and better aligning donor support with country priorities.
The Bank’s work on poverty reduction is guided by an emphasis on economic growth that benefits the poor, poverty and social impact analysis, and empowerment. Substantial progress was achieved in all three areas in fiscal 2004.
Growth is essential for poverty reduction, but sustained, successful poverty reduction also requires that poor people participate in and benefit from growth. In fiscal 2004 the Bank did much to foster such growth. (See www.worldbank.org/poverty/inequal.) Bank staff prepared framework papers on defining and measuring pro-poor growth and on the extent to which pro-poor and pro-growth policies involve trade-offs.
The Bank also helped 50 countries evaluate the potential impact of policy reforms on the welfare of poor and vulnerable people, initiating more than 40 Poverty and Social Impact Analyses (PSIAs) in fiscal
c. 1966. A modern harvester shown reaping sorghum in an irrigated field reclaimed from desert land in Iran. The project raised living standards for 12,000 villagers who formerly lived under primitive conditions.
2004. The Bank increased the number of training events for staff and clients and developed new guidelines on conducting PSIAs. It also strengthened its coordination with other donors to facilitate collaboration with them on PSIAs, and it expanded the PSIA Web site (www.worldbank.org/poverty/psia).
GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Bank lending for governance, public sector reform, and rule of law—all key to poverty reduction—totaled $3.9 billion in fiscal 2004. The Bank also increased its learning and outreach programs on governance issues, hosting nearly 50 seminars and training sessions on topics such as governance and accountability in a decentralized social sector, reinventing government, values and ethics, and judicial reform.
The Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) continue to work closely on public financial management through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries expenditure-tracking initiative. Working closely with client countries, Bank and IMF staff are reassessing public finance systems, updating action plan progress, and developing new action plans. The Bank has also increased its diagnostic and advisory work in public financial management. It has
collaborated with partners to develop a performance measurement framework for assessing public finance systems, as well as an analytical approach that supports government-led capacity building.
During fiscal 2004 the Bank supported implementation of the Financing for Development Consensus, which reinforces the importance of domestic resource mobilization and aims to enhance relations between international organizations and national authorities on tax reform issues. The Bank, the IMF, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development signed a memorandum of understanding on establishing an international tax dialogue. (See www.worldbank.org/publicsector.)
GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT
Gender equality issues are now integrated into most Country Assistance Strategies, and Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers are increasingly gender sensitive. Gender issues are also important in Bank-financed projects, particularly in education, health, and social protection.
Numerous Bank-supported operations are promoting gender equality, including education projects in Chad, Eritrea, Kenya, and Sierra Leone; an Early Childhood Development Project in Brazil; an HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis Control Project in Djibouti; a Rural Women’s Development and Empowerment Project in India; and a Land Titling Project in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
The Trust Fund for Gender Mainstreaming in the World Bank, financed by the governments of the Netherlands and Norway, is supporting capacity building among women in indigenous communities in Honduras, entrepreneurial opportunities for women in Tajikistan, and gender- and HIV/AIDS-related activities in Africa. An economic policy initiative is developing a body of analytical work on such areas as trade, competitiveness, and public sector downsizing.
The Bank also participates in partnerships to promote gender equality and empower women at the municipal, regional, and country levels. Its November 2003 workshop on Gender Equality and the Millennium Development Goals—organized jointly with United Nations agencies, multilateral development banks, and bilateral donors—conveyed the message that gender equality is critical to achieving all of the goals and identified strategies for ensuring gender-sensitive actions. (See www.worldbank.org/gender.)
The outcome of the Doha Development Round of Trade Negotiations matters a great deal to the world's poor An agreement that slashed trade barriers, particularly in agriculture, would, in the long term, stimulate trade and raise incomes around the world, leading to a substantial reduction in global poverty.
TRADE
Research shows that trade boosts productivity, which in turn enhances growth. The Bank’s work on international trade promotes a world trading system that is more conducive to economic development and helps developing countries capture the benefits of global opportunities. (See box 3.1.) Established nearly two years ago, the Bank’s International Trade Group supports the successful conclusion of the Doha Development Round and strengthens partnerships with international organizations to enhance coherence and coordination in support of trade reforms.
During fiscal 2004 Bank researchers investigated the impact of trade liberalization on poverty, the ways in which multilateral and regional trade agreements can support the development process, the effect of international product standards on trade volumes and patterns, and the impact of liberalizing trade in infrastructure services such as telecommunications, port
BOX 3.1 TRADE: WORKING TOWARD RESULTS AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL
The Bank's regional trade work is being complemented with country work. The Integrated Framework (IF) Initiative to help the less-developed countries integrate into the world economy is an important part of this program. Trade diagnostic studies have been completed for Burundi, Cambodia, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Guinea, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali (near completion), Mauritania, Nepal, Senegal, and the Republic of Yemen. Integrated Framework dissemination workshops have been organized in these countries. Donor meetings have been held in Mauritania (November 2002), Senegal (June 2003), Nepal (November 2003), and Madagascar (January 2004). Several major studies on the impacts of Russia's accession to the World Trade Organization have also recently been completed.
The Bank's CIS-7 trade initiative, which covers the poorest countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States, focuses on trade, integration, and competitiveness, and provides technical assistance for export and investment facilitation. Other important diagnostic studies are under way for Central America (in the context of the Central America Free Trade Agreement), the Caribbean region, the Dominican Republic, Kenya, Nigeria, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Ukraine, with many more in advanced planning stages.
facilities, and international transportation. In fiscal
2004	the Bank published several books on trade topics, including Agriculture and the WTO, Poor People’s Knowledge: Promoting Intellectual Property in Developing Countries, and other titles that examine regional and cross-cutting trade issues.
Capacity-building efforts through the World Bank Institute included new courses on standards, trade facilitation, and services. The Bank also supported Vietnam’s accession to the World Trade Organization, the Doha negotiations, and national trade policies in Africa, and it continued its regional program in support of African researchers.
Bank lending operations reflect the growing importance of trade in country development agendas.
Through the Trade Facilitation Initiative, the Bank is involved in more than 130 trade-related operations in more than 60 countries. In September 2003, at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Cancun, Mexico, the Bank announced a new program to help countries seize opportunities offered by the current round of trade talks by reforming trade-related institutions and addressing barriers to trade stemming from inadequate ports, roads, and customs procedures.
The Bank also works through the Global Trade Facilitation Partnership for Transportation and Trade—a collaboration of more than 150 international partners—to create a worldwide constituency for the reform of trade logistics and trade facilitation.
(See www.worldbank.org/research/trade.)
ECONOMIC POLICY
The Bank’s economic policy work focused on several key areas in fiscal 2004—all involving growth. These included economic growth and employment strategies; economic growth through technological change; the role of fiscal policy in promoting growth and employment; debt and volatility issues affecting the sustainability of growth; fiscal, growth, and employment issues at the subnational level; and integrative policy analysis and tools for macroeconomic analysis.
The Bank’s Economic Policy Group produced handbooks on fiscal sustainability, tax expenditures, management of volatility and crises, and subnational fiscal reform, as well as papers on government-private sector interaction and technological change; wages, employment, and growth; export-promotion zones and growth; competitiveness and growth; and fiscal policy and growth. (See www.worldbank.org/ poverty.)
The Bank continues to support country development efforts through diagnostic reports, such as the Development Policy Review and country economic memoranda, which provide integrated views of a country’s development priorities and cross-sectoral links to poverty reduction. In fiscal 2004 it conducted development policy reviews of Cape Verde, Ecuador, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nepal, the Philippines, the Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Uganda.
Investing in People
Investing in services that enable poor people to break the cycle of poverty has never been more important. Bank support to country clients to expand and deepen the impact of their spending on health, education, and other key services is stronger than ever. The Bank also aims to strengthen the services that protect vulnerable people, including children and youth, people with disabilities, and people in crisis. From international partnerships geared at scaling up the effort to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to country-based programs at the local and household level, putting people first is at the heart of the Bank’s commitment.
EDUCATION
Helping countries build education systems that can respond to the poverty and knowledge challenges of the 21st century is a fundamental objective of the World Bank. Restoring momentum toward the goal of universal primary school completion by 2015 has been the objective of the Education for All Fast-Track
Education projects in Indonesia enable poor children in rural areas to attend school.
Initiative. In its first 20 months, the initiative promoted faster policy reform, improved donor coordination, and mobilized additional resources, doubling funds to the first seven participating countries. Most significantly, the initiative created a global framework for resolving issues arising along the Education for All path. At a landmark meeting in Oslo in November 2003, attended by representatives of the Bank, donors, and client countries, participants agreed to expand the Fast-Track Initiative to all eligible low-income countries and to launch a Bank-managed Catalytic Fund with initial commitments of $250 million to provide start-up funding to countries implementing good policies but lacking sufficient donor support.
In addition to accelerating progress toward universal primary education—including support to help educational systems respond to the impact of HIV/AIDS— the Bank is committed to helping countries build the advanced skills they need to compete in global markets.
Since the HIV/AIDS epidemic began, more than 60 million people have been infected with HIV and more than 20 million people have died of AIDS. Around the world, an estimated 5 million people became infected with HIV in 2003 alone, bringing the total number of adults and children living with HIV/AIDS to 38 million. More than 95 percent of people living with HIV/AIDS are in developing countries, and about half of all new adult infections occur among young people ages 15 to 24.
AIDS threatens human welfare, socioeconomic advances, social cohesion, and even national security. In many countries AIDS is erasing decades of progress in development and is orphaning millions of children. Given the impact of the epidemic on development, the World Bank has placed HIV/AIDS at the center of its development agenda.
The World Bank is one of the largest sources of financial support for the prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation of HIV/AIDS through national, regional, and subregional programs. Since 1990 the Bank has committed more than $2.4 billion for HIV/AIDS-related programs in grants, loans, and credits in every region to fight the disease. For the poorest countries, HIV/AIDS projects supported by IDA can be financed wholly by grants rather than loans. In fiscal 2004 12 stand-alone HIV/AIDS projects or projects with HIV/AIDS and related components were approved for nine countries, one region, and two subregions for total commitments of $381 million. Of these, 12 projects were IDA grants. In Africa and the Caribbean, nearly $1.2 billion has been made available since 2001 to support the implementation of national HIV/AIDS strategies and subregional HIV/AIDS activities through the Multicountry HIV/AIDS Programs (MAPs). Every eligible country in Africa is now receiving MAP support or preparing for MAP funding, and by the end of fiscal 2004, the Caribbean MAP was supporting seven national projects and one regional program.
In addition to financial assistance, the Bank is also a major provider of project support, through direct provision of expertise (especially in fiduciary matters), the sharing of good practices and lessons learned, and sponsorship of intercountry learning. As a founding cosponsor of the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the Bank works closely with other U.N. agencies to strengthen HIV/AIDS work at country, regional, and global levels. At the country level, the Bank is actively engaged in policy dialogue and in helping countries to use the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper process and the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative to release funds from debt relief for fighting HIV/AIDS.
The Bank's Global HIV/AIDS Program supports the World Bank's efforts to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic from a cross-sectoral perspective and leads the monitoring and evaluation efforts of UNAIDS partners through the Global HIV/AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Support Team. This team works with countries and diverse donors to strengthen monitoring and evaluation capacity at the country level and coordinates with donors to relieve countries from having multiple reporting systems.
The World Bank is working with all major stakeholders in scaling up antiretroviral therapy; its recently completed technical guide, “Battling HIV/AIDS: A Decision Maker's Guide to the Procurement of Medicines and Related Supplies," has been endorsed by U.N. agencies. The $60 million grant for the Treatment Acceleration Project will pilot innovative public sector, private sector, and civil society partnerships for scaling up comprehensive treatment in Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Mozambique.
The Bank has entered into a partnership with the United Nations Children's Fund; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and the Clinton Foundation to make it possible for developing countries to purchase high-quality AIDS medications at low prices. The drug agreements could save $150-$400 per patient per year, allowing more people to be treated. Agreements on diagnostic tests will result in savings of up to 80 percent.
Today more than ever before, the Bank's efforts on HIV/AIDS are beginning to pay off. Within the Bank, HIV/AIDS has been placed squarely on the development agenda and AIDS work is reflected in health projects as well as projects in many other sectors, including education, infrastructure, transportation, and water and sanitation. Internationally the Bank plays an important role as a major contributor to the fight against HIV/AIDS and as a trendsetter in new ways of dealing with the pandemic. (See www.worldbank.org/aids.)
c. 1974. An outdoor literacy class in a village near the Kita area in Mali was part of an Integrated Rural Development Project.
This assistance is provided through analytical and advisory activities, which increased 25 percent in fiscal 2004, and lending, which reached $1.68 billion in fiscal
2004,	including $515 million of education components in 50 noneducation projects. Steady growth in integrated support reflects a strategy of nesting education firmly in national poverty reduction programs and other efforts that address vulnerability, health, private sector development, and public sector governance.
The India Elementary Education Project offers a good example of Bank efforts to support a highly committed government: accelerated project processing of a $500 million IDA credit in just nine months, and use of a sectorwide approach permitting pooled funding, joint supervision, and common reporting and monitoring with other donors. (See www.worldbank.org/ education.)
HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND POPULATION
Protecting people from the impoverishing effects of illness, malnutrition, and high fertility is at the core of the Bank’s focus on health, nutrition, and population. Good policies and effective health services are critical links in the chain of events that allow countries to break out of the vicious cycle of poverty, and they are central to the achievement of several MDGs. Better health and nutrition lead to greater productivity, higher incomes, and economic growth.
Health systems performance remained a dominant theme in fiscal 2004, representing $546 million in new lending. Support to child health, nutrition, and population programs and to reproductive health programs totaled more than $630 million, while support to the fight against communicable diseases, including HIV/AIDS, reached $379 million. The Bank’s commitment to addressing the health and economic impact of injury and noncommunicable disease was reflected in $315 million in new lending.
At a high level forum convened by the Bank and the World Health Organization in Geneva in January
2004,	donor and country partners met to develop a consensus on ways to accelerate progress toward the health MDGs, such as making Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers more responsive to these goals. For example, the Second Tanzania Health Sector Project tracks the same indicators for health under both national and sector programs. The project also addresses other critical constraints, such as the crisis of human resources in health caused by both HIV/AIDS and emigration, and the challenge of deploying health workers to underserved areas.
To better understand what works in delivering health services to poor people, the Bank assessed dozens of interventions in Africa, Eastern Europe, and Latin America. Although many initiatives undertaken with the objective of benefiting poor people—such as improvements in primary health care and efforts to ensure attended births—are falling short of their goals, others are performing well. Measles immunization campaigns have had good results in Ghana and
Roughly 400 million people with disabilities live in developing countries. Poor nutrition, dangerous working and living conditions, limited access to adequate health care, poor hygiene, inadequate information about the causes of impairments, war, conflict, and natural disasters all help explain why the number is so high. Disability exacerbates poverty by reducing access to education and public services and the opportunity to earn a living. This vicious cycle affects not only the individual but often the entire family and community.
A Bank-supported operation in India is training disabled people in development work so that they can help empower other disabled people and their families. It strives to reduce stigma and raise the social and economic status of people with disabilities by building institutions that support the provision of accessible services and promote disability prevention activities. The Bank has made it a priority to ensure that all activities it finances, including procurement and project design criteria, consider the needs of people with disabilities. (See www.worldbank.org/disability.)
Zambia, and government contracts with civil society organizations to operate district health systems have produced a patient mix in Cambodia that is more beneficial to the poor.
The Argentina Maternal and Child Health Insurance Program responds to the urgent needs of poor mothers and children. The loan uses an innovative matching grant mechanism from the federal budget to target indigenous people in the nine poorest provinces. Other innovations include reducing the cost of borrowing for polio prevention in Nigeria and Pakistan and for tuberculosis prevention and treatment programs in China, in partnership with foundations and bilateral donors. (See www.worldbank.org/hnp.)
PROTECTING VULNERABLE PEOPLE
Crises, natural or otherwise, have devastating effects on poor households, robbing them of security, assets, and incomes. Social protection measures that help individuals, households, and communities better manage risks and that provide support for the chronically
poor are essential for reducing household vulnerability. Adequate and sustainable social protection policies help improve the investment climate, and they positively affect economic growth, incomes, and poverty. Social safety nets reduce the severity of poverty and help promote health and education. Bank-supported social funds and public works programs have improved roads, schools, and health facilities. Interventions also have targeted vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, the disabled, orphans, and children affected by harmful child labor. (See box 3.2.) In fiscal 2004, 77 percent of the $1.6 billion in new social protection lending went to risk prevention and mitigation activities (pensions, unemployment insurance, and social funds), with the remaining 23 percent spent enhancing the ability of households to cope with welfare downturns (social safety net operations).
More countries undertook assessments of risk, vulnerability, and social safety nets, and more poverty assessments included a vulnerability focus in fiscal 2004. By comparing the main risks countries face with the policy instruments used to manage those risks, these analyses identified programs with insufficient coverage or inadequate emphasis on preventing or mitigating recurrent shocks, helping policy makers improve the effectiveness of their interventions. For example, with assistance from development partners, including the Bank, the Ethiopian government is shifting away from a system dominated by emergency humanitarian aid toward a productive and protective safety net aimed at reducing vulnerability. (See www.worldbank.org/sp.)
ENGAGING WITH CHILDREN AND YOUTH
A priority for the Bank in fiscal 2004 was to bring children and youth into the policy dialogue on global development issues and have them inform national and local decision making. The objective is to give young people a voice at the table where discussions on the Country Assistance Strategy, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and other projects take place. To do so, the Bank launched the New Voices Initiative, an effort at the country level to engage young adults directly in development activities. At the Youth, Development, and Peace Conference that took place in Paris in September 2003, the Bank and young leaders identified five themes for future youth involvement: education, employment, risky behavior and HIV/AIDS, conflict and peace, and participation and empowerment.
Addressing the Challenges of Sustainable Development
Sustainable development is central to poverty reduction. The Bank bases its policies on an environmentally and socially integrated approach, including a focus on agriculture and rural areas, where 70 percent of the poor now live.
Responsible Growth for the New Millennium: Integrating Society, Ecology, and the Economy describes the Bank’s long-term strategy for addressing the future challenges of technology change, natural resource management, and social balance. To further this strategy the Bank is encouraging countries to address global concerns with appropriate solutions, customizing country approaches that can address challenges ranging from water scarcity and climate change to rural growth and social development. (See www.worldbank.org/sustainabledevelopment.)
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Some 45 percent of rural development lending in fiscal
2004	went to South Asia and Africa; the former is
A Sri Lankan village shop is lit by solar lamps.
home to some 490 million of the world’s poor. Lending to agriculture rose in fiscal 2004, and is projected to increase significantly over the next two years, along with forest and rural water lending.
Implementation of the Bank’s rural development strategy, Reaching the Rural Poor, has already had a significant impact on many of the Bank’s activities in rural areas. The strategy has made rural development a multisector activity, enhancing cooperation among the many Bank units active in rural areas. (See www.worldbank.org/ruralstrategy.)
Rural poor people are increasingly involved in planning national rural-development strategies.
Eleven countries have used participatory processes to develop people-centered national rural-development strategies. With Bank support, another 10 countries— including Bangladesh, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, and the Philippines—are preparing water resource assistance strategies.
Lending for rural infrastructure now represents a third of all rural lending. Infrastructure is key to
c. 1965. Tea is picked in Ragati, in Kenya. Two Bank loans and three IDA credits helped the development of agriculture and the improvement of roads in the tea-growing areas.
revitalizing the agricultural sector, and increasing agricultural productivity is, in turn, critical to promoting economic growth in rural areas. The Bank has strengthened its partnership with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research to ensure the supply of new and adapted technologies for enhancing agricultural productivity. (See www.cgiar.org.) It is continuing its efforts to convince governments in industrial and developing countries to allow a more open agricultural trade regime and to reduce trade-distorting agricultural subsidies. (See www.worldbank.org/rural.)
ENVIRONMENT
The Bank is in the third year of implementing its environment strategy. It continues to make progress toward achieving the key objectives of improving the quality of life, improving the quality of growth, and protecting regional and global commons. At the same
time, it is committed to the Millennium Development Goal of ensuring environmental sustainability and endorses the global commitments made at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development.
(See www.worldbank.org/environmentstrategy.) Poverty and the Environment
New programmatic lending instruments that provide loans for long-term change are helping the Bank support policy and institutional reforms that address links between poverty reduction and the environment. One example is the Third Poverty Reduction Support Project in Uganda, which improved the quality of water and sanitation services and increased access for the poor. Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers and Country Assistance Strategies are also incorporating environmental objectives, recognizing and strengthening the environmental impacts of development assistance and country actions.
Analytical and Cross-Sector Work
To further enhance its environmental dialogue with client governments, the Bank, during fiscal 2004, conducted Country Environmental Analyses (such as in Bangladesh, Colombia, and Ethiopia); Strategic Environmental Assessments (such as the Assessment of Macroeconomic Impact of Climate in Mali); Environment Monitors (in, for example, Cambodia and Thailand); and Energy-Environment Reviews (in, for example, Rwanda and Turkey). Cross-sector work, increasingly owned by client countries, also strengthens the links with the water and sanitation, transportation, urban, energy, and rural development sectors.
Environment Lending
The Bank approved 67 new projects with environmental content in fiscal 2004, for a total of $1.3 billion in new lending for such projects. The loans represent about 6.5 percent of total new lending by the Bank, an increase from 4.7 percent in 2002 and 6 percent in
2003.	Examples of loans that support the environment include the First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability in Brazil and the Water Supply and Sanitation Project in Iran.
Environmental Benefits
The Bank is building synergies between local and global environmental benefits. In partnership with the Global Environment Facility (www.gefweb.org), the
Carbon finance is proving to be a powerful tool for improving the viability of clean technology investments that address climate change. Bank client countries provide high-quality carbon emission reductions in exchange for development dollars, technological know-how, and clean technologies for sustainable development. Through “learning by doing" and targeted technical assistance, the Bank is helping to build developing countries' capacity to participate in this emerging market. (See www.carbonfinance.org.)
The carbon finance business has substantial private sector involvement. It catalyzes investment in renewable energy and provides a source of revenues after most Bank financing ceases, thus sustaining project activities long after a project is completed.
With more than $420 million under management and approximately $350 million in projects approved or under preparation, funds supporting carbon finance include the Prototype Carbon Fund, a public-private partnership; the Community Development Carbon Fund, which extends carbon finance to smaller poorer countries; the BioCarbon Fund, which applies carbon finance to forestry and land use projects; and industrial country funds such as those of the Netherlands or Italy, which expand carbon market development to involve the private sector.
Montreal Protocol, and the Bank’s carbon finance business (see box 3.3), the Bank is addressing global environmental issues. As an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility, the Bank is preparing projects in two new areas—land degradation and persistent organic pollutants. Along with other participants at the September 2003 World Parks Congress, and as one of the largest financiers of biodiversity projects, the Bank highlighted the importance of integrating local livelihoods into protected area management and of complying with the Convention on Biological Diversity. (See www.worldbank.org/ montrealprotocol.)
Greening the Bank
Internally, the Bank launched the Environmental and Social Sustainability Initiative, its own approach to corporate social responsibility. The initiative seeks to improve the environmental impacts of its physical facilities as well as its corporate and operational procurement (See www.worldbank.org/ess; www.worldbank.org/environment.)
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Social development is fundamental to the Millennium Development Goals. Evidence presented in the OED Review of Social Development in Bank Operations shows that projects that take social dimensions into account have better development outcomes, are more sustainable, and are more likely to develop effective institutions. Incorporating recommendations from this review, the Bank drafted a strategic priorities paper,
Social Development in World Bank Operations: Results and Way Forward. The paper, which is currently undergoing global consultations, proposes ways in which Bank-financed projects and programs can better integrate the operational principles of social sustainability: inclusion, cohesion, and accountability.
A key area for Bank support in fiscal 2004 was the scaling up of community-driven development. Efforts to better integrate this approach into country programs intensified, with analytical work on program design and implications in all regions. Efforts are increasingly moving toward strengthening local governance, particularly the links between local governments and community-based organizations.
The Bank has developed a Conflict Analysis Framework to enhance conflict sensitivity in Bank-
financed projects. It is also developing tools for engaging with civil society in conflict-affected areas, exploring the links between conflict and natural resource management, adapting community-driven development approaches to conflict settings, developing guidelines for assessing postconflict needs, and applying conflict analysis to the poverty reduction strategy process to ensure more effective poverty reduction in conflict-affected countries. (See www.worldbank.org/caf.)
During fiscal 2004 the Bank’s Post-Conflict Fund approved more than $8.5 million in grants to support conflict-affected countries. (See www.worldbank.org/conflict.)
In collaboration with partners, the Bank provided operational and cofinancing support for Poverty and Social Impact Assessments. Country-level social indicators are being tracked through a new online database, and a framework for country-level social analysis is being tested.
Fiscal 2004 also saw the launching of the Community of Practice on Social Accountability, with a series of workshops and lectures aimed at enhancing knowledge sharing, networking, and the mainstreaming of social accountability in Bank operations.
To integrate the safeguard review and clearance process into the Bank’s work, the Bank’s Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit updated procedures for regional review of projects with moderate or low
environment and social impacts and risks. It conducted an extensive program of capacity-building activities on safeguards for staff and clients and continued to support harmonization processes with the Bank’s development partners.
Fiscal 2004 also saw the approval of the Global Fund for Indigenous Peoples (www.worldbank.org/ indigenous), which finances a grant facility that provides small grants directly to indigenous peoples’ organizations for development-related activities.
The Bank also conducted a capacity-building program for leaders of indigenous peoples in the Andean region and worked to strengthen the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues.
(See www.worldbank.org/socialdevelopment.)
Revitalizing Infrastructure
Infrastructure is a key factor in reducing poverty, supporting growth, and reaching the Millennium Development Goals in developing countries. But existing infrastructure is often poor, access limited, and funds to improve it inadequate.
The World Bank supports a wide range of infrastructure services in transportation; water supply and sanitation; urban services; telecommunications; and energy, including electricity and extractive industries such as oil, gas, and mining (see also “External Evaluation” in chapter 4). It supports infrastructure service delivery, reform, and institution building through policy dialogue and physical investments. It also acts as a catalyst to leverage financial and other assistance from development partners and the private sector to support technical assistance. The Bank made a new commitment in fiscal 2004 to infrastructure with the launch of the Infrastructure Action Plan.
POVERTY ALLEVIATION, THE MDGs, AND GROWTH
Estimates show that in the late 1990s infrastructure investments reduced poverty by as much as 2.1 percent in low-income countries and 1.4 percent in middle-income countries. Improving infrastructure services such as water supply and sanitation is an explicit target in the Millennium Development Goals, and improving services such as housing and information and communication technologies is at least implicit in the goals. Infrastructure services also have an impact on the goals relating to health, education, and gender. Increasing access to clean water, for example, has reduced the probability of child mortality by 55 percent overall. Paved roads have significantly increased—and in one case doubled—the attendance of girls at school.
Infrastructure also has important links to economic growth. Infrastructure investment is particularly important to growth during the early stages of a country’s development, when infrastructure is scarce and basic networks have not been completed. One study found that if the stocks of telecommunications and power-generation infrastructure in Africa had been comparable to those in East Asia, the continent’s annual growth rate would have been about 1 percentage point higher
Solar energy lights a village shop in Sri Lanka.
during the 1980s and 1990s. A recent study of Latin America estimated that the lack of investment in infrastructure during the 1990s reduced long-term growth by 1 to 3 percentage points, depending on the country. At the project level, World Bank infrastructure projects have had an average economic rate of return of 2 percent, and in recent years the return has averaged 3 percent. Infrastructure is also a critical element in building the investment climate: the private sector consistently
ranks lack of infrastructure as one of the key impediments to investment.
ACCESS, QUALITY, AND FINANCING NEEDS
The unmet access, quality, and financing needs for infrastructure services in developing countries remain staggering. In rural areas in low-income countries, only 2 percent of the population has access to electricity, and less than 2 percent has access to a mainline telephone. Infrastructure needs are sizable in most middle-income countries and in urban areas as well.
Lack of access is compounded by the low quality of infrastructure services. Relative to OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries adopting best practices, energy losses are twice as large, water losses four times as high, and faulty telephone lines ten times more common in low-income countries. Eighty percent of roads are paved in OECD countries, compared with just 29 percent in low-income countries. A recent study of seven Latin American countries suggests that the poor quality of public infrastructure renders it only about 74 percent as effective as infrastructure in industrial countries. This translates into a long-run cost that is equivalent to about 40 percent of real per capita income.
Meeting the challenge of increasing access to good-quality infrastructure services will require sizable investments over the medium term. Current estimates point to financing needs of about 7 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) for all developing countries—for both new investment and operations and maintenance expenditures. Financing needs in low-income countries could be as high as 9 percent of GDP. These figures suggest that investment and operations and maintenance allocations for infrastructure, which average about 3.5 percent of GDP in developing countries, may have to double.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE ACTION PLAN
In July 2003 the Bank launched its Infrastructure Action Plan. The plan sets the stage for increased support for infrastructure service delivery through a balanced public sector-private sector approach and the mobilization of financing from multiple sources. It commits the Bank to responding to increased client demand for infrastructure, to analyzing the effectiveness of and need for infrastructure in developing countries, and to
c. 1955. The Anchicaya dam and power station serve the fast-growing city of Cali and were financed by loans from the World Bank totaling $8.03 million.
strengthening its own instruments and approaches. (See box 3.4.)
The Bank has made significant progress in implementing the recommendations of the Infrastructure Action Plan and in reengaging in infrastructure development. It has signaled a more flexible approach to supporting infrastructure service delivery and providing guidance on the roles of the public and private sectors. It is developing guidance notes on specific types of infrastructure services. A note on public and private sector roles in the supply of electricity services addresses the range of options, from purely private to purely public, that most Bank client countries will face as they work with Bank staff to reform their power sectors and improve efficiency and growth.
(See www.worldbank.org/infrastructure.)
The Bank also increased infrastructure lending, provided more policy advice, and strengthened donor coordination in fiscal 2004. It began rebuilding its country knowledge base by introducing the Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure, a new standardized infrastructure diagnostic. It invested in infrastructure sector performance data to improve results measurement and monitoring. Together with other multilateral development banks and bilateral organizations, it built common analytical and policy platforms. The Bank also strengthened its instruments
BOX 3.4 INNOVATIVE APPROACHES TO INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICE DELIVERY
The Bank is taking an innovative approach to delivering infrastructure in several new operations launched in fiscal 2004. The South Africa Regional Gas Project (SASOL) will mobilize private sector investment to generate revenues by developing and exporting natural gas from Mozambique to South Africa. A World Bank Group project, SASOL involves an IBRD partial risk guarantee, MIGA guarantees (which help private sponsors raise commercial debt on reasonable terms), and IFC equity. It is also the first IBRD enclave guarantee—in which IBRD resources are being used for an IDA-only country—as well as the first IBRD local currency guarantee, denominated in rand.
The Cambodia Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project uses an output-based aid approach to finance water connections for poor households. Under the project, the government (supported by IDA grants) will make fixed subsidy payments for each connection made by private sector operators to households identified as being below the poverty line. Payments will be made only after successful connection and proof of reliable service.
The Trade and Transport Facilitation in South East Europe Program is a regional initiative that fosters trade and integration across eight countries by working to reduce nontariff costs to trade and transportation, reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings, and strengthen and modernize customs administrations and other border control agencies.
and approaches by creating a cross-sectoral Infrastructure Economics and Finance Department. The department acts as a focal point for infrastructure finance, strengthens risk mitigation instruments, and explores engagement not just at the national level but
also at the state and municipal levels. As it revitalizes its infrastructure business, the Bank will continue to apply its social and environmental safeguards, which are critical to ensuring high-quality infrastructure projects.
Supporting Private Sector Development
The Private Sector Development Network identifies the regulatory reforms, policies, and institutional capacities needed to create a vibrant investment climate. Building such a climate is crucial to promoting growth where poor people live. Research and practice show that such growth is key to reducing poverty.
Growth has not taken hold in many countries, despite the important reforms of the 1980s and 1990s. Those reforms focused largely on macroeconomic stabilization, neglecting important microeconomic reforms, including streamlining the rules governing the establishment and operation of a business. Such reforms are crucial, as many microeconomic factors— including laws and regulations, public institutions, and civic habits that make it difficult for entrepreneurs to start formal businesses, borrow money, and hire workers—limit the potential for economic growth.
The Bank’s strategy is to develop a second generation of reforms focused on improving microeconomic conditions for private sector investment and growth. The network is providing better data through new survey tools that can be used to analyze the elements of a good investment climate and to translate that knowledge into Bank lending and advisory services that support actual reforms in developing countries. The strategy includes promoting responsible business practices and corporate governance; targeting support for micro-, small, and medium-size enterprises, and advancing privatization policies that work in suitable, competitive contexts so that the private sector can successfully offer goods and services.
Private sector development work spans many parts of the Bank. This cross-cutting theme, found in both lending instruments and economic and sector work, is organizationally linked with the International Finance Corporation, providing coordination for private sector programs throughout the World Bank Group. The Private Sector Development Network is implementing the Bank Group’s private sector strategy by combining better research on business environment constraints with country programs that strengthen policies and institutions. It also facilitates important dialogue between government and the private sector about reform.
Vendors sell a variety of produce at the Xai Xai Market.
RESEARCH AND ASSESSMENT
A Bank-IFC report, Doing Business in 2004: Understanding Regulation, released this year, provides microeconomic data from 133 countries on five key indicators: starting a company, hiring and firing workers, enforcing a contract, obtaining credit, and going bankrupt. (See box 3.5.) Doing Business generated global media
Doing Business in 2004: Understanding Regulation is an example of groundbreaking World Bank-IFC research that makes a complex issue accessible to the general public. The report, which includes data on the business climate in 133 countries, has raised important questions about the red tape affecting business. Why, for instance, does it take 152 days in Brazil, 168 in Indonesia, and 210 in Angola to start a business and only 2 in Australia, 4 in Puerto Rico, and 8 in Singapore? Why does this process cost five times per capita income in Cambodia and less than 1 percent in Canada? Doing Business concludes that poor countries regulate business in ways that are associated with bad outcomes (greater government inefficiency, more corruption, higher unemployment, and less investment). It also maintains that best practices are transferable from one country to another. What works in industrial countries can work in developing countries, and innovations from developing countries can be broadly replicated.
Planned as an annual report, Doing Business will examine three new indicators (property titling, corporate governance, and business licenses) in
2005	and another three (taxes, trade, and law and order) in 2006. (See http://rru.worldbank.org/ doingbusiness.)
coverage and a new interest in reform in many countries. Research showed that cumbersome regulation is associated with lower productivity. (See figure 3.1.)
Doing Business complements investment climate surveys launched in 52 countries in the past three years, with some 20 more planned in fiscal 2005. To help identify priority areas for reform, these standardized firm surveys identify policy, regulatory, and institutional factors that constrain private investment and link these constraints to firm-level performance. Together with other sources, the surveys underpin Investment Climate Assessments, key country reports on the business environment. Some 26 Investment Climate Assessments have been completed. These assessments have influenced 11 Country Assistance Strategies and helped shape some 30 new Bank lending operations in Africa, East Asia and Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, and South Asia. Investment Climate Assessment findings and Doing Business indicators are also being incorporated into Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers.
In several poor countries, Doing Business and Investment Climate Assessments have helped spur governments to cut red tape. Many national and international agencies, including the Dutch Department of Economic Development, the U.S. government’s Millennium Challenge Account, the Summit of the Americas, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are using Doing Business indicators to help determine how to allocate aid or monitor country progress. IDA has adopted policy reform targets that are based on Doing Business indicators.
In response, a dozen countries have carried out promising reforms. The spotlight on regulatory reforms will intensify with the World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone.
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), a joint service of the Bank and IFC, provides governments with analyses and recommendations for increasing foreign direct investment. (Figure 3.2 identifies resource flows to developing countries.) The service completed about 60 advisory projects on policy reforms or capacity building in fiscal 2004. Almost 70 percent of FIAS policy recommendations have been fully or partially implemented within three years of submission. An example is Albania, which began implementing recommendations to remove red tape and root out corruption, such as streamlining its customs procedures. (See www.fias.net.)
c. 1961. The World Bank has supported the development of many private industries. Cement stacks are shown being loaded onto a customer's truck at the Pacasmayo Cement Plant in Peru.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank’s Corporate Governance Unit completed 10 country assessments analyzing how well securities laws, corporate laws, and business practices comply with principles of corporate governance developed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The 28 assessments
completed to date are serving as the basis for policy dialogue, legal reforms, and new capacity-building projects in many countries. The Arab Republic of Egypt, for example, has adopted several corporate governance recommendations, including establishing listing rules for its stock exchange and creating an institute to train directors on corporate boards.
LENDING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND ADVISORY SERVICES
The Bank made commitments for 95 new projects with private sector development components in fiscal 2004, which will amount to over $4 billion of its portfolio. These figures underscore the Bank’s commitment to new and innovative lending for investment climate reforms. The Bank’s total portfolio now includes 488 projects with private sector development components, amounting to more than $16 billion of lending.
IDA and IFC launched a pioneering $225 million pilot project in several African countries to address the main roadblocks to the growth of small and medium-size companies. In Brazil the Bank provided a $505 million adjustment loan, based partly on Investment Climate Assessment findings, to help make firms more competitive by reducing logistics costs caused by bottlenecks in customs and transportation. Doing Business indicators will be used to assess progress.
In Nigeria the Bank is helping design a small and medium-size enterprise development project that uses
Doing Business indicators and Investment Climate Assessments for monitoring performance.
Private sector research also influences advisory services and technical assistance. The network coordinates closely with many of the 10 IFC donor-supported funds, called Project Development Facilities. These facilities provide technical assistance to small firms and business organizations for work on improving difficult business environments. In Chengdu, China, to expand credit to small businesses, the Doing Business team provided the municipal government with information on global best-practice credit bureaus. With the support of the Doing Business team and the facility, FIAS is working with the People’s Bank of China on crafting recommendations for reforming the country’s collateral laws and improving creditor rights protections.
The Private Sector Development Rapid Response Unit launched a new version of its highly rated knowledge-management Web site, which allows Bank staff, policy makers, and reformers to hold policy discussions and access the leading research, databases, and privatization tool kits. The site is on target to reach 1 million visits a year. (See http://rru.worldbank.org.)
PRIVATE SECTOR DIALOGUE
An important element of most successful investment climate reforms has been dialogue between business
and government. The Bank is actively facilitating such dialogue around the world and working to create open environments that allow business and government to put difficult issues on the table for candid discussion. Business-government dialogues regularly accompany the dissemination of Doing Business, Investment Climate Assessments, FIAS reports, and corporate governance reports. In Brazil the Doing Business forum led to the formation of a private sector group to propose reforms to the government. As part of a new gender initiative, consultations on the impact of regulation on women were held with women’s business associations from 13 countries. In Nigeria the Investment Climate Assessment provided the basis for launching the Better Business Initiative, which has spurred a dialogue between the private sector and the government on key investment climate policies. In India the private sector has taken the lead in launching follow-up investment climate surveys to monitor progress in policy reforms. In Ghana, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda, investor councils composed of leading government and business officials have begun operating, and an investor council was formed in Turkey in 2004 with FIAS assistance. The Global Corporate Governance Forum, a multidonor trust fund founded by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Bank, supports private-public roundtables at which participants discuss policies and identify areas for urgent improvement.
Building Strong Financial Systems
The World Bank has long recognized that poverty reduction and economic growth depend on effective and strong national financial systems. Financial systems that develop unevenly and lack transparency and proper regulation are more vulnerable to financial shocks. Extensive Bank research shows that these shocks and crises disproportionately affect poor people. Weak financial systems in developing countries contribute to poverty by providing inadequate access to financial services to individuals and to the small and medium-size enterprises that are key to economic growth and empowerment. The Bank contributes to strengthening the financial sector in three ways: by generating and disseminating knowledge, by providing country diagnostic services, and through lending and technical assistance.
KNOWLEDGE GENERATION AND DISSEMINATION
In collaboration with outside groups, the Bank produces cutting-edge contributions on financial sector topics to help practitioners and governments make better policy decisions. The vast majority of this research,
both publications and data, can be downloaded from the Bank’s Web site (www.worldbank.org/finance).
In fiscal 2004 the Bank was at the forefront of analysis on several issues that are critical to mitigating risk and developing sound financial markets, such as financial sector governance, risk management, corporate restructuring, and electronic finance and security.
(See box 3.6.)
In many countries, people lack access to financial services. The Bank has developed analytic frameworks for assessing poor people’s access to services and identifying the impediments to expanding it. Simultaneous studies in several Latin American countries, including Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico, surveyed access to financial services by individuals and examined the actual and potential role of different types of financial institutions—private and public banks, microfinance institutions, informal arrangements—in providing access. Results on individual countries have been widely disseminated, cross-country comparisons are now under way, and studies are being conducted in other countries, including India and South Africa.
These efforts should help policy makers understand what factors limit access to financial services.
The Financial Sector Learning Program complements ongoing research by offering financial sector policy makers, regulators, private sector practitioners, World Bank staff, and academics cutting-edge policy advice and forums in which they can share multidisciplinary perspectives. A number of programs were conducted this year, including a collaboration with RiskWaters, a private firm specializing in providing information on financial services (including risk management). It addressed the development of sound frameworks to implement the new Basel Accord, which highlights improved risk management, enhanced supervisory authority, and disclosure and transparency for banking systems.
In addition, the World Bank stepped up efforts to assist countries at risk of crisis. A conference on dealing with systemic financial distress brought together policy makers and academics to develop a handbook for authorities based on lessons learned. The Bank also took the lead in several regional seminars on bank insolvency, including events held in Malaysia, South Africa, and Tunisia. The seminars were targeted to reach senior
legal officials in central banks and drew on the findings of the Global Seminar on Regulatory Aspects of Financial Stability, held in Basel, Switzerland. Last, the Bank launched a new Corporate Restructuring Initiative in fiscal 2004, which was followed by a global seminar on international best practices in corporate restructuring. In the wake of the financial crises of the late 1990s, the link between corporate restructuring and bank restructuring is widely recognized. For more information about the Financial Sector Learning Program, including the calendar of events, visit www.financelearning.org.
This past year, the World Bank put increased focus on the role of global remittances, acknowledging that they are an important source of capital for developing economies. Inadequate financial infrastructure, however, and impediments to cross-border financial transactions, hamper their flow through formal channels. People who send money home often pay high fees or use informal financial channels. Transaction costs amount to billions of dollars each year and could be reduced substantially by promoting greater competition and better outreach and payments infrastructure in the formal financial system. Besides lowering costs, these practices would also ensure greater transparency by channeling remittance flows through appropriately regulated formal channels. Addressing these issues will also help develop the financial sectors in recipient countries, provide greater access to financial services, and support the Bank’s efforts to prevent money laundering and to block the financing of terrorism, both increasing global concerns.
The relative impact of natural disasters on developing countries is greater and more disruptive than it is on developed ones, largely because the infrastructure in developing countries is less resilient, the building standards are lower, and the coping resources and mechanisms are fewer. Yet because domestic insurance markets are less developed in these countries, little of the risk is transferred to international reinsurance markets, leaving developing countries to retain most of the risk of natural disaster. In response to such a problem, the World Bank worked together with the Turkish government, domestic insurers, and international reinsurers to develop the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool, a state-mandated pool that, by arranging sources of risk financing before a natural catastrophe occurs, can add to the availability of funds and access to liquidity in the event of a disaster and thus can contribute to better risk management. The World Bank is working with
BOX 3.6 MEETING THE CHALLENGE OF ELECTRONIC FINANCE
Electronic finance provides great opportunities to reduce the costs of financial and commercial transactions, but it also poses new security risks. The Financial Sector publication Electronic Safety and Soundness: Securing Finance in a New Age offers practical information on how to mitigate risks so that emerging economies can enjoy the benefits of these new technologies. The paper was disseminated at events such as the Asia Pacific Regional Conference on Electronic Safety and Soundness for Financial Services, held in Singapore May 17-18,
2004.	The conference provided policy makers with advice on crafting safe and sound platforms for electronic financial services and increasing crossborder collaboration to help regulatory authorities and policy makers improve their capacity for mitigating electronic security risk.
other developing countries to develop similar schemes for better managing the risks of natural disasters. In India the Bank delivered a comprehensive report on disaster risk management to the government. The heart of the report consists of an estimate of the potential loss from earthquakes, floods, and cyclones in four states that have suffered major disasters in the past two decades. Key recommendations included establishing a central disaster risk-management facility to further
develop country and state disaster response and mitigation capacity and linking such an initiative to the development of a formal contingency-funding capacity, including, where appropriate, contingent debt and modern risk-transfer technologies. The Indian government recently established the core of a formal risk management unit in the Ministry of Home Affairs, where senior staff are using the Bank report to further the debate in India.
COUNTRY DIAGNOSTIC WORK
The World Bank joins the international community that has embarked on a range of initiatives to strengthen the international financial architecture. International financial architecture refers broadly to the framework and institutional context that can help manage crises and even prevent them from occurring. The joint World Bank-International Monetary Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program, established in 1999, helps identify financial system strengths and vulnerabilities and helps reduce the potential for crisis. As of June 2004,86 countries have had an initial assessment. Of these, 66 assessments have been completed. An additional 20 countries have formally requested an initial assessment.
Many systemically important countries—where an internal financial crisis could spill over to other countries—have been assessed, including, for instance, more than half of the G-20 group of developing countries. The mix of countries now entering the program includes an increasing share of poorer and smaller developing and transition countries. Although the program will provide initial assessments to some 17 countries, the number of reassessments and updates is expected to increase in the future. A new multidonor partnership, the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative, has been established as a mechanism to support technical assistance follow-up to the Financial Sector Assessment Program and others. To date,
the partnership has funded $15 million for 89 projects globally.
To help build secure investment climates, the Bank intensified its technical assistance to countries and regional organizations to strengthen anti-money-laundering efforts and combat the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT). These efforts followed the completion of a pilot program, undertaken jointly with the International Monetary Fund, of 33 country assessments measuring compliance with international AML/CFT standards. Assistance has involved providing advice on drafting laws and regulations, implementing preventive measures in the financial system, and training evaluators. The Bank has also launched an external AML/CFT Web site, which is available at the Bank’s main Web site at www.worldbank.org.
LENDING, POLICY ADVICE, AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Bank provides loans, advice, and technical assistance to client countries interested in reforming or restructuring their financial sectors. Lending for financial sector reform amounted to $1.3 billion in fiscal 2004 and covered topics ranging from payment systems and capital markets to financial sector restructuring. For example, in West Africa the Bank financed a project to build institutional capacity in the regional financial market. With technical assistance and an IDA credit, the project helped to strengthen the regulatory framework and build the capacity of regional institutions for capital market operations. The credit provided medium- and long-term financing for projects that will promote regional integration among the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union countries. It also developed political risk mitigation instruments that can catalyze longer-term commercial financing in support of small and medium-size infrastructure projects in West African countries.
Promoting the Modernization of Legal and Judicial Systems
Effective legal frameworks and institutions are critical to alleviating poverty. For this reason, strengthening the rule of law is a high-priority goal for the Bank, client countries, other international financial institutions, bilateral donors, and civil society organizations.
The Bank’s Legal Vice Presidency works closely with all other Bank units to increase assistance to borrower countries in modernizing their legal systems. To strengthen these efforts, Bank plans call for a future Legal Reform Trust Fund as a multidonor grant facility. This fund will promote knowledge sharing and development, research, capacity building, legal education, and civil society activities in the field of legal modernization. One of the priority areas for Institutional Development Fund grants is legal and judicial reform that supports the rule of law.
As part of this process, the Bank is now elaborating on a sector strategy for legal modernization in light of experience. The strategy aims to measurably improve the development benefits delivered by legal systems.
ENHANCING THE INVESTMENT CLIMATE BY STRENGTHENING LAWS
As part of its effort to build the climate for investment, the Bank is helping strengthen the international financial architecture. It recently finalized its Principles for Effective Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems and has assessed some 25 countries against these principles under a joint International Monetary Fund-World Bank program to develop Reports on Observance of Standards and Codes. These assessments have led to Bank-provided technical assistance in 8 countries. The online Global Insolvency Law Database, which covers more than 75 countries, has expanded knowledge outreach. So, too, have regional conferences such as the Forum on Insolvency in Latin America, organized in collaboration with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other partners, and the Third Forum on Asian Insolvency Reform in the Republic of Korea. The Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law are also exploring ways to promote unified standards on insolvency and creditor rights. (See www.worldbank.org/gild.)
The Bank continued to promote the improvement of investment climates and to strengthen the rule of law in a series of legal and judicial sector reform assessments and projects in numerous countries. (See box 3.7.) These assessments identify issues and offer recommendations that encourage dialogue between the Bank and borrowing countries and help coordinate the work of the donor community in this sector. Typically, they also lead the Bank and donors to support legal and judicial reform as necessary to promote sound investment climates. A Bank-supported legal and judicial development project in Morocco, for example, has contributed to strengthening commercial courts and registries, prompting wide interest from other countries in the region. (See www.worldbank.org/ljr.)
POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND THE LAW
The Bank has also focused on how the justice sector serves poor people. The Indonesian Justice for the Poor Program, supported by the Bank, led to the development of a community-driven strategy for legal reform. The strategy is based on extensive case studies demonstrating that informal village institutions are widely perceived as quicker, cheaper, and easier to deal with than formal courts in resolving the most pressing disputes. Many disputes involve allegations of corruption.
By consulting the Internet in Mauritania's eastern village of Aioun Al Atrous, two residents learn of the right of the indigenous local population to defend their remaining trees against tree-cutters from Nouakchott, the capital.
BOX 3.7 IMPROVING THE LEGAL ENVIRONMENT IN IRAQ
Helping create positive climates for investment and finance is particularly difficult in countries in the midst or aftermath of a military conflict. In fiscal
2004	the Bank provided legal support on operational issues, international law, and institutional issues in postconflict situations around the world.
In collaboration with the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations, the Bank worked within the framework of United Nations Security Council resolutions, existing Iraqi law, and the measures adopted by the Coalition Provisional Authority to identify the possible contribution of the Bank to the reconstruction and development of Iraq. As part of this effort, the Bank is supporting a project to build public and private capacity by training Iraqi lawyers to draft and negotiate construction, commercial, and financial contracts.
A tribal court near Ulundi, South Africa, deals with food shortage issues.
While village institutions succeed in resolving some cases, most fail because of the large power imbalance between villagers and the perpetrators of corruption. Successful cases are those in which community leaders mobilize at the grassroots, have links to civil society, and have the backing of strong outside institutions. These lessons are now shaping Bank assistance to the sector in other countries, including Cambodia.
Cambodia’s Land Management and Administration Project (II)—funded by the Bank and the German Society for Technical Cooperation—ensures that disadvantaged parties in land disputes receive legal assistance and that systematic titling of land occurs. The project supports a system of land mediation boards under the Ministry of Lands. The system, through which a national committee renders final decisions on conflicting claims, is proving to be a more user-friendly mechanism for land dispute resolution than local courts.
Many poor people in rural areas cannot obtain relevant legal information in a form they can understand. To address the problem, an Institutional Development Fund grant is financing a pilot project in Mauritania that puts the official texts of statutes, such as the country’s recently enacted Code Pastoral, on the Internet in Arabic and French. The code devolves ownership of natural resources, such as grazing land and trees, back to the people living in outlying areas. Those able to access laws on the Internet in turn make the essence of such laws available to illiterate people using poems and pictograms. Through these sorts of innovative presentations, access to relevant laws is empowering local villagers.
ADDRESSING GENDER EQUALITY
In fiscal 2004 the Bank launched a program to provide advisory and technical support to promote gender equality and justice. In Guatemala, Honduras, Peru, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela, the Bank examined the extent to which international standards, as established under international conventions on gender equality, are applied. Through distance dialogues via videoconferences with Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela, the Bank proposed strategies for promoting equal access to justice by women, particularly in cases of gender-based violence, a priority issue voiced by local stakeholders. The Bank has also strengthened ongoing partnerships with other international organizations—including the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the International Labour Organization, the Organization of American States, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Pan American Health Organization—in the area of women’s human rights, developing subregional initiatives to improve the implementation and monitoring of relevant conventions. In addition, the Bank has provided Institutional Development Fund grants in various countries, including Chile, Ghana, Kenya, and Nigeria, to empower women to enforce their rights through legal literacy and training.
COUNTERING FRAUD AND CORRUPTION
The Bank helps countries combat corruption, assesses corruption in its country analyses and lending deci-
sions, and contributes to international efforts to fight corruption. Through its Department of Institutional Integrity, it investigates allegations of fraud and corruption in World Bank Group operations. Based on these investigations, the Bank’s Sanctions Committee determines whether there is sufficient evidence that a firm has engaged in any fraudulent or corrupt practice in connection with a Bank-financed contract. Where it finds evidence of fraud or corruption, the committee identifies an appropriate sanction, such as debarment for a specified period. The Bank is considering developing a first-of-its-kind program for an international organization that will encourage firms to come forward voluntarily with information about fraud and corruption in Bank-financed projects. (See www.worldbank.org/integrity.)
Chapter 4
Improving Development Effectiveness
Concern for global stability and prosperity requires development efforts that achieve measurable results. Desirable outcomes can include raising greater numbers of people out of poverty, achieving higher levels of education for more people, and lowering infant mortality rates. Countries need to focus on such results so that they can make better policy decisions and design better strategies for their own development. The new partnership for development calls for countries to measure their achievement toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In fiscal
2004	the Bank began to implement its own results agenda—an action plan to enhance its effectiveness as a development agency. With its development partners, it also produced the first Global Monitoring Report, which provided an assessment of progress on the policies and actions needed to attain the MDGs.
future work. The plan emphasizes action in three
areas:
■	In countries—where results are achieved, to strengthen the planning, statistical, monitoring, and evaluation capacity needed to manage for results, and to build public demand for greater accountability for results.
■ In the Bank—to be a more relevant and effective partner by strengthening the focus on results in strategies, instruments, incentives, and reporting systems.
■ Across development agencies—to foster a global partnership that manages for results by encouraging common approaches and better coordinated support to strengthen country capacity.
Progress was made in all three areas in fiscal 2004.
MANAGING FOR DEVELOPMENT RESULTS
Managing for development results—using information to improve decision making and to steer country-led development processes toward well-defined goals—is at the forefront of the global development agenda and a core element of the Bank’s strategic objectives. It builds on the Bank’s efforts to increase aid effectiveness by improving the quality of lending and nonlending activities. A conceptual framework and Bank-wide action plan on managing for results were developed in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004 the Bank began to implement the action plan.
The framework recognizes that the Bank needs to focus on results throughout the project cycle: early on, for strategic planning and program design; during implementation, for day-to-day management and corrections to program design; and toward the end, for evaluation and feedback that can inform
Strengthening Capacity in Countries
The motivation and capacity of developing countries to manage for results are fundamental for success. Progress requires the political will to demand information on results as well as the institutions and expertise to produce the information and use it to make informed policy and management decisions. But many countries lack basic data on development outcomes, monitoring and evaluation systems, and institutional mechanisms for providing information on results to managers and policy makers.
The Bank contributes to countries’ efforts to meet these challenges by supporting a focus on results in their national poverty reduction strategies, by assessing the readiness of their institutions to manage for results, and by helping them employ results-based approaches in government institutions through sharpened analytical work, public sector reform, and better fiscal management. An important advance in fiscal 2004 was
the development and initial implementation of an umbrella lending program—the Statistical Capacity Build ing Program—to strengthen statistical systems, institutional capacity, and planning in developing countries. The Bank’s knowledge-sharing activities—in which it distills and disseminates experience on activities that achieve results under various country circumstances— are another vehicle the Bank uses to help countries achieve development results. (See also “Knowledge Sharing and Advisory Services” in chapter 5.)
Increasing the Bank's Contribution to Development Results
The Bank’s purpose has always been to achieve development results. Historically, however, it gauged its success mainly by measuring the volume and, more recently, the quality of its individual lending operations. In recent years the widening array of Bank products and services—including analytical work, capacity-building initiatives, and global programs— and a shift in focus from individual operations to the country level created a need for a broader understanding of results.
The Bank is responding to this demand by increasing the focus on measurable results in its Country Assistance Strategies and sector strategies, lending instruments, reporting systems, and internal incentives. In fiscal 2004 the Bank introduced a pilot for the results-based Country Assistance Strategy to better link the
BOX 4.1 RESULTS-BASED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGIES
Results-based Country Assistance Strategies help Bank staff select the most relevant and effective mix of Bank support for developing countries.
These strategies have the following key features:
■	Explicit statements of the results that Bank-supported activities aim to achieve and of the links between Bank support and those results
■	Better monitoring and evaluation to help the Bank and countries steer toward agreed results
■	Greater emphasis on strengthening country capacity to manage for results
■	Learning from experience through a systematic assessment of the previous Country Assistance Strategy to inform the strategy and Bank activities of the next one
Six pilot results-based Country Assistance Strategies were approved in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004. Initial feedback suggests that they lead to a better selection of Bank activities by encouraging discussions across sectors. They also strengthen the dialogue between countries and the Bank. The pilot phase will be formally evaluated in fiscal 2005 as the next step toward general adoption of results-based Country Assistance Strategies.
Bank’s products and services with country-level results (see box 4.1 on page 85). The Bank’s Sector Boards have strengthened the results frameworks and outcome monitoring of their sector and thematic strategies. Basic documents and procedures have been revised to strengthen the articulation of outcome-oriented objectives and the monitoring and evaluation of Bank operations. The Bank is also developing a long-term learning strategy to help staff and management meet the growing demand for skills in results-based approaches. These approaches are becoming an increasingly important and accepted part of the Bank’s culture.
The Bank also developed an enhanced results measurement system for the 14th Replenishment of IDA (IDA14, covering fiscal 2006-08). The system will reflect the priorities of national poverty reduction strategies and will be linked with the Millennium Development Goals. It will provide aggregated information on countries’ progress toward achieving development results and on IDA’s contribution to their progress.
Development of a more comprehensive results-reporting system across the Bank—integrating country, sector, and global results information—is an important goal of the results agenda. Because such a system will be based on information from results-based Country Assistance Strategies and from operations and programs with a stronger focus on results, it will achieve its full potential only after these approaches are adopted throughout the Bank’s work.
Coordinating with Other Development Agencies
Achieving better results requires greater collaboration between countries and development agencies and better coordination among development agencies themselves. Development agencies need to align their requirements for results reporting with countries’ national monitoring and evaluation systems. At the same time, these agencies need to coordinate their support for countries’ efforts to strengthen capacity to manage for results.
In fiscal 2004 the Bank promoted these aims by helping establish and actively participating in two formal partnerships on managing for results—one among multilateral development agencies, the other between multilateral and bilateral development agencies. The Bank also cosponsored international events on managing for results, including the Second International Roundtable on Managing for Development Results, held in Morocco in February 2004. These partnerships and events enable agencies and countries to raise the profile of managing for results, share good practices, and learn from one another.
The cosponsors of the Second Roundtable endorsed core principles, a joint memorandum, and an action plan on managing for development results, providing a basis for a broad consensus on what managing for results means and how to go about achieving it. At the same roundtable, the international statistical community reached agreement on a medium-term global action plan to strengthen international statistical systems, including collaborative mechanisms. Through these initiatives, the Bank and other development agencies are building the foundations for harmonized results-based approaches and reporting.
SIMPLIFYING AND HARMONIZING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
To modernize and simplify its assistance to borrowers, the Bank is streamlining and updating its policies for investment and adjustment lending. This effort
includes expanding the items eligible for financing under investment lending; modernizing mechanisms for disbursement, financial management, and procurement; streamlining procedures for fiduciary and safeguard reviews of projects; and harmonizing the Bank’s policies with those of other development organizations.
The international community has recognized that the quantity and variety of donor requirements attached to development financing generate additional transaction costs for developing countries. As a result, multilateral and bilateral development institutions are working to better coordinate their policies, procedures, and practices. Donor institutions are working to improve development effectiveness by eliminating duplicative programs and aid requirements and by providing assistance in line with their comparative advantage.
The Bank is working with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to develop a harmonization toolkit in areas such as financial management, procurement, environmental and social safeguards, and analytical work. It is also developing a Web site that will bring together information about harmonization for practitioners and a country-level tracking tool for sharing experiences and best practices.
To ensure that laws adequately and consistently reflect Bank safeguard policies, the Bank is assisting Mexico, Poland, Sri Lanka, and other client countries by reviewing their national laws and helping them design adequate national environmental and social management frameworks.
GLOBAL MONITORING OF PROGRESS TOWARD THE MDGs
The first Global Monitoring Report, issued in April
2004,	reviewed global prospects for reaching the MDGs. It identified reasons for optimism, as well as reasons for grave concern. At the global level, the first goal—of halving income poverty between 1990 and 2015—will most likely be met, because of stronger economic growth spurred by improvements in policies.
East Asia has already met the goal. Africa, however, is seriously off track, with just eight countries, representing about 15 percent of Africa’s population, likely to achieve the goal. In other regions that will probably meet the goal at the aggregate level, a number of countries will not. Low-income countries under stress, about half of which are in Africa, are especially at risk of falling far short.
Progress on the human development goals, in particular education and health, depends on the scale and effectiveness of interventions directed toward them. At the same time, the multiple factors that determine success in meeting these goals cut across sectors. Prospects for achieving the goals are brighter in education than in health. Given current trends, several regions will achieve or approach the goal of providing universal primary education. But shortfalls are likely in Africa and are possible in South Asia and the Middle East and North Africa. Gender gaps are the most serious in these three regions as well. Although the MDG target date for gender equality in primary and secondary education is
2005,	it appears that, globally, about a third of developing countries will not achieve this goal even by 2015.
The first Global Monitoring Report was the main agenda item for the spring 2004 meeting of the Development Committee, a forum of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that works to build consensus on development issues. The report was prepared by Bank and IMF staff, collaborating closely with partner agencies, including other multilateral development banks, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. The report will underpin the Development Committee’s regular monitoring of progress on the policy agenda for achieving the Millennium Development Goals and related developments and reinforce the accountabilities of the key actors—developed and developing countries, as well as multilateral agencies.
In health, the prospects are grave. Just 15-20 percent of countries are currently on track to achieve the goals of reducing child and maternal mortality. If current trends continue, most regions will not attain either goal. The incidence of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis is rising, making the goal of halting and reversing their spread daunting. The spread of these diseases exacerbates conditions that increase child and maternal mortality rates—and it has grim economic and social consequences. The risks of failure to halt HIV/AIDS are especially high in Africa but are substantial in many countries in other regions as well.
Large gaps in access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation make achieving the health goals more difficult. The gaps are largest in Africa for water and in South Asia for sanitation. To halve the proportion of people without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015, another 1.5 billion people will need safe water, and 2 billion will need sanitation. Since current rates of progress are about half what is needed, most regions will fall far short: only about 20 percent of countries will achieve the target on access. Among low-income countries, just 1 in 10 is expected to do so.
Global and regional trends hide considerable variation within regions—and often within countries. East Asia provides a good example. The region’s middle-income countries have already met or will soon meet several of the MDGs. But its low-income countries are unlikely to meet them, as are many poor countries in Africa. There is also diversity within countries, especially large ones.
Middle-income countries are much better positioned to achieve the MDGs than low-income countries, and many of them have already met the goals or are well on the way to achieving them. Yet, even in those countries, hundreds of millions of people live in poverty.
Urgent Action Is Needed
The implication is clear. To achieve the MDGs, countries must substantially accelerate the pace of development—and do so swiftly. In line with the principles and partnership established at Monterrey, in March 2002, all parties—developing and developed countries, as well as multilateral agencies—must scale up their action. The policy agenda for achieving the MDGs has three essential elements:
■	Accelerate and deepen reforms to achieve stronger economic growth, which directly reduces income poverty and expands resources for use toward the other goals.
■	Empower and invest in poor people, and improve the delivery of human development and related key services. Deliver better education and health services, as well as related infrastructure services such as water and sanitation and rural roads.
■	Speed up action on the Monterrey partnership, matching stronger reform efforts by developing countries with stronger support from developed countries and international agencies. Developing countries need expanded access to markets in developed countries to increase exports and spur growth, and they need more aid to finance development programs.
The Global Monitoring Report provides an integrated assessment of the policies and actions of all development partners. It is an accountability framework for monitoring how the various parties are living up to the commitments made at the Monterrey summit and for focusing attention on the priorities for action.
The framework for monitoring developing-country policies classifies the policy agenda into four areas: economic and financial policies, public sector
governance, human development, and environmental management (figure 4.1).
The Monterrey Consensus envisaged increased support by developed countries in two key areas that directly affect outcomes in the developing world: trade and aid. Policies in developed countries also greatly affect the outcomes of global collective action, such as the preservation of the global environmental commons. The monitoring framework focuses on four key aspects of developed-country policies: macrofinan-cial policies, trade policies, aid, and global public goods (figure 4.2).
The international financial institutions have an important role to play in helping countries achieve the MDGs. The monitoring framework for assessing their contribution focuses on four key dimensions: country programs, global programs, partnership, and results (figure 4.3).
The Cost of Achieving the MDGs
Developed countries and financial institutions are called upon to provide more and better aid, but there is a concern that countries may not be able to absorb it effectively. However, aid increases pledged since the
Monterrey summit, if realized, are still below the level of the early 1990s relative to gross national income in recipient countries. A recent Bank study found that countries with relatively good policies and institutions could absorb a substantial increase in aid that could be used effectively to boost progress toward the MDGs. As a conservative estimate, such countries could absorb at least $30 billion annually. As countries improve their policies and governance over time, the amount of aid that can be used effectively would increase to $50 billion or more per year, the amount that most estimates suggest is necessary to support adequate progress toward the MDGs.
The cost of achieving the MDGs is difficult to estimate for several reasons. One is that putting a price tag on achieving these goals requires distinguishing between average and marginal cost. In education, the marginal cost of enrolling a child could be higher than the average cost, because children not in school might be harder to induce to attend school or may live in more scattered populations. Another is that progress on one goal contributes to progress on other goals.
For example, safe drinking water and good sanitation promote better health. There are multiple determinants
for each goal, and they cut across many sectors. The interdependence of goals implies that costing each goal separately could result in double counting.
The effectiveness of additional expenditure also depends on appropriate changes in policies and institutions.
Bank Lending for the MDGs
In fiscal 2004 the Bank analyzed the level of all new commitments in relation to the individual Millennium Development Goals. Table 4.1 shows the breakdown of lending aimed at goals 2-8.
ASSESSING THE QUALITY OF BANK ACTIVITIES
The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group has a mandate to monitor the quality of the Bank’s projects and analytical work. It reports directly to senior management but shares its reports with the Board. (The reports are posted at www.worldbank.org.) Its assessments are conducted by peer review panels that draw on several hundred senior staff as well as seasoned professionals from other development agencies, think tanks, universities, and civil society organizations. This approach lends credibility and allows the Bank to provide timely feedback to frontline operations.
The Quality Assurance Group assesses the quality of new projects in “real time,” providing immediate feedback to task teams and their managers when a project is approved (quality at entry) and during implementation (quality of supervision). It also assesses Bank
analytical and advisory services, known as economic and sector work, just after delivery to client countries. In fiscal 2004 the Quality Assurance Group initiated a pilot program for assessing country lending portfolios on demand from country managers. Its flagship Annual Report on Portfolio Performance explores the scale, structure, performance, and quality of the active portfolio. It also presents an analytical perspective on one or two key challenges to ongoing Bank operations.
Quality indicators derived from quality assurance reviews have documented broad improvement over the past several years, although the trend for quality at entry has flattened somewhat over the past two years. During fiscal 2003, 85 percent of projects received satisfactory ratings for quality at entry—down from the average of 90 percent for fiscal 2000-02. For fiscal
2002,	90 percent of projects were rated satisfactory in terms of quality of supervision, and 92 percent of projects received satisfactory ratings for their economic and sector work. The fiscal 2003 Annual Report on Portfolio Performance notes that the proportion of satisfactory development outcomes as evaluated by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) in projects exiting the portfolio fell. Project supervision ratings of performance had failed to give sufficient early warning of the decline in outcomes. Based on these findings, Bank management has initiated a comprehensive program to enhance development outcomes and increase the reliability of project performance monitoring and reporting. Figures 4.4,4.5, and 4.6 show the Bank’s Active Project Portfolio by region, theme, and sector.
The Operations Evaluation Department is an independent unit within the World Bank that reports directly to the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors. OED’s evaluations seek to provide an objective basis for gauging the results of the Bank’s work, to ensure accountability in the achievement of the Bank’s objectives, and to allow Bank staff to learn from experience. OED helps improve Bank work by identifying and disseminating the lessons learned from experience and by framing recommendations drawn from evaluation findings.
The overall objective of OED’s flagship Annual Review of Development Effectiveness is to apprise the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors of the Bank’s development effectiveness. The 2003 Annual Review of Development Effectiveness: The Effectiveness of Bank Support for Policy Reform found that the Bank’s current
strategy treats policy reform and institutional development as instruments for creating an environment conducive to pro-poor growth and widespread, sustainable poverty reduction. The report examined the Bank’s effectiveness in helping client countries put in place policies conducive to sustainable poverty reduction and emerged with three key messages:
■	Two-thirds of developing countries improved their economic and social policies over the past four years. Countries that did so grew at about twice the rate of countries that did not. In many cases Bank programs (including all forms of Bank support, not just adjustment lending) contributed to policy improvements.
■	Bank country assistance had satisfactory outcomes in about 70 percent of the cases evaluated by OED. Where outcomes were not satisfactory, contributing factors included inadequate country knowledge, poor alignment between programs and country policy-making styles, overoptimism about debt sustainability, and attempts to transplant policies or institutions without
adequate consideration of country-specific factors.
■	During fiscal 2002, 79 percent of project outcomes were satisfactory, exceeding the strategic compact target of 75 percent. About 84 percent of the fiscal 2003 projects have been evaluated, and of these,
74 percent are rated satisfactory (see figure 4.7).
Corporate Evaluations
Corporate evaluations are produced in response to a Board request or to address particular concerns. They assess ongoing activities for overall effectiveness, efficiency, and consistency with stated objectives. The corporate evaluations completed in fiscal 2004 included Comprehensive Development Framework and Sharing Knowledge: Innovations and Remaining Challenges.
The Comprehensive Development Framework evaluation concluded that to achieve the benefits of this approach, countries need to put disciplined budget processes in place; donors need to support efforts to strengthen budget processes and align their assistance with national development strategies; and all donors, particularly the World Bank, need to show leadership in developing better mechanisms for designing and implementing cross-sectoral programs.
Sharing Knowledge: Innovations and Remaining Challenges found that more strategic direction and oversight of the Bank’s knowledge processes are required and that network and regional units should link their knowledge-sharing activities more closely to core operational processes. The evaluation stated that the Bank’s commitment to a comprehensive knowledge
initiative was timely and appropriate and that Bank knowledge can now be accessed more quickly and easily, but it concluded that improved oversight, monitoring, and incentives are needed.
Country Assistance Evaluations
Country Assistance Evaluations examine Bank performance in a particular country, usually over the previous four to five years. They assess how well performance conforms to the relevant Bank Country Assistance Strategy, and they evaluate the overall effectiveness of the strategy. The fiscal 2004 Country Assistance Evaluation for Armenia concluded that Bank assistance should focus on improving the environment for private sector development and supporting public sector reform. Together, progress in these areas can generate the job creation and export expansion necessary to sustain progress. The Bosnia and Herzegovina evaluation found that the Bank needs to work closely with the International Monetary Fund and the European Union to present a common approach on critical reforms.
Since 1990 the Bank has played an important supportive role, through policy advice and institution building, in China’s enormous progress. In fiscal 2004 OED recommended that the Bank continue to play a role in China. However, with a reduced lending program and without IDA resources, both the Bank and China will need to adapt their policies and procedures to make the best use of Bank assistance.
In Croatia the Bank should turn its attention to fostering growth, attacking unemployment, and strengthening debt sustainability through private sector development, including working to create a better environment for new firms. In Rwanda OED recommended that IDA assistance focus on reducing poverty and inequality, using the Millennium Development Goals as an organizing framework. OED concluded that analytical and advisory work and adaptation of projects to country conditions are crucial for Rwanda’s development. A joint evaluation on Tunisia undertaken with the Islamic Development Bank recommended that the World Bank help the government improve the environment for private investment, enhance the efficiency and quality of social spending, and strengthen institutions and safety nets in the rural sector.
Sector and Thematic Evaluations
Sector and thematic evaluations examine Bank performance and experience in a lending sector or a crosscutting theme over 5 to 10 years and report on how
well they conform to Bank policy and good practice and on how well Bank objectives have been met. The Review of Social Development in Bank Activities helped define the Bank’s work on social development, showed its importance to development effectiveness, and provided messages on how social development work could be made more effective. OED recommended that the Bank identify and promote the use of social-thematic combinations that improve outcomes. It suggested that strategic planning needs to address current skills, monitoring, and evaluation. OED’s report Promoting Improvements in Ghana’s Basic Education concluded that the delivery of hardware inputs to Ghana’s basic education system has had a substantial impact on higher enrollments, as well as on better learning outcomes, but it recommended that more attention be paid to less privileged schools.
The Extractive Industries and Sustainable Development evaluation highlights the need to address governance issues squarely, strengthen project implementation, and use the Bank’s convening power to reach out to stakeholders more vigorously. The evaluation found that to enhance extractive industries’ contribution to sustainable development, the World Bank Group needs to formulate and implement integrated strategies at the sector and country levels. The Transition Economies evaluation showed how the Bank supported the huge transition that took place in the former socialist countries of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
It pointed out that an earlier focus on governance, growing poverty, and the privatization process would have helped the transition economies. OED concluded that Bank assistance was largely successful but recommended that active programs of stakeholder inclusion should be widely replicated and that Country Assistance Strategies should be used to bolster reform capacity.
OED Reviews of CAS Completion Reports
An important change introduced in OED’s fiscal 2004 work program was the OED review of piloted CAS (Country Assistance Strategy) Completion Reports. These completion reports are important new selfevaluation instruments that are validated by OED reviews. OED reviews of the completion reports are expected to be mainstreamed starting in fiscal 2005, with an eventual 20-25 reviews undertaken each year. In fiscal 2004 OED undertook reviews of the Brazil, Cameroon, Mozambique, Ukraine, and Zambia CAS Completion Reports.
INSPECTION PANEL
The Board created an independent Inspection Panel in 1993 to address more closely the concerns of people affected by Bank projects and to ensure that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures in designing, preparing, and implementing projects. Any group of two or more people that believes it is or may be harmed by a Bank-supported project may ask the Panel to investigate its complaint that such harm stems from the Bank’s failure to abide by its policies and procedures.
The Executive Directors decide, on the recommendation of the Panel, whether an investigation will take place. The Inspection Panel provides a vehicle for private citizens, and especially poor people, to directly access the World Bank’s highest governing body, the Board of Executive Directors. The process for addressing claims has empowered and given voice to people who may have been adversely affected by World Bank-financed projects.
As one of the World Bank’s mechanisms for addressing compliance, the existence of the Panel has enabled the Bank to listen to complaints brought forward, consider the Panel’s assessments of those claims, and adopt better policies and operational procedures to successfully implement the Bank’s poverty reduction mission.
In fiscal 2004 the Panel received six new requests for inspection involving Bank projects in the Philippines (Manila Second Sewerage Project), Cameroon (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project),
Mexico (Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Project), Colombia (Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and Environmental Management Project), and India (Mumbai Urban Transport Project, two requests). The
Panel also published its second book, Accountability at the World Bank: The Inspection Panel 10 Years On, which traces the evolution of the Panel and reviews its experiences over the years. It discusses eligibility issues and the Panel’s effect on World Bank practices and policies. The book was translated and published in French, Spanish, and Portuguese.
Thirty-three requests for inspection have been filed since the Panel was established: 10 from Africa, 11 from Latin America and the Caribbean, 9 from South Asia, and 3 from East Asia and Pacific. Of the 33 formal requests received, the Panel has recommended investigations in 14 cases, 6 under the rules that applied before the April 1999 clarifications to the resolution that established the Panel, and 8 since those clarifications were adopted.
Requests for inspection, Panel recommendations, Panel investigation reports, and management recommendations for projects reviewed this fiscal year can be found at www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION
The World Bank Group began the Extractive Industries Review in 2000 to determine how effective its investments in the oil, gas, and mining industries have been in advancing sustainable development—and to help define the future role of such investments, which represent about 2 percent of annual lending commitments. Developing countries often find Bank Group involvement crucial to achieving positive outcomes, and projects with Bank Group funding often set examples on environmental, social, and governance safeguards that industry subsequently follows.
The review consisted of two evaluations by groups operating independently of Bank Group management: one by the operations evaluation units of the World Bank Group and the Compliance Advisor Ombudsman for IFC and MIGA (discussed above); and the other through a stakeholder consultation process. The reviews found that Bank Group involvement in extractive projects has resulted in positive contributions to sustainable development, but not uniformly. The stakeholder report, in particular, suggested reforms in a number of areas, including a greater emphasis on renewable energy sources, more transparent reporting of revenue figures, increased consultation with local stakeholders, and fuller disclosure of project information.
Bank Group management released a reform proposal for the Bank Group’s activities in the extractive industries on June 18, 2004. The proposal, released at the request of the Board of Directors, was available for public comment for 30 days in order to have the benefit of additional views before the Board authorized an official Bank response. The full proposal, encompassing a response to both internal and external reviews, can be found at www.worldbank.org/ogmc. Additional information about the various extractive industries reviews can be found at www.eireview.org, www.ifc.org/oeg, and www.caoombudsman.org/ ev.php.
Among the Bank’s shareholder nations, broad support remains for involvement in extractive industries.
In addition to promoting and raising standards for industry, the Bank assists with public sector reforms, provides technical advice and training, and offers expertise and innovative financing for environmental protection and alternative energy.
Summary of Fiscal 2004 Activities
As a group, developing countries grew much faster than developed economies in calendar 2003, although the accomplishments of individual economies varied widely. Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita in the low- and middle-income countries increased
3.5	percent during the calendar year, more than twice the 1.6 percent average growth rate experienced in high-income countries. Developing countries benefited from the revival of global investment, with capital spending among the group growing 10.8 percent in
2003,	more than twice the rate at which it grew in 2002.
The economies of Europe and Central Asia grew
5.5	percent in 2003, up from 4.6 percent the year before. The outlook for 2004 and beyond is for continued robust growth in the region as a whole. GDP in South Asia rose 6.5 percent in 2003, up from 4.3 percent in 2002, with domestic demand providing the impetus for growth. Output in South Asia is expected to grow
7.2	percent in calendar 2004, followed by a period of moderation. At the forefront of the global turnaround in investment are the developing countries of East Asia and the Pacific, which are expected to grow 7.4 percent in 2004, led by continued rapid growth in China.
In contrast with accelerating growth in other developing regions, GDP growth in Africa slowed to 2.4 percent in 2003, down from 3.3 percent in 2002. Over the next two years, the region should be able to accelerate GDP growth toward a range of 4 percent. Doing so will require significant structural reforms—in addition to good weather and greater political stability. Problems of disease and poor infrastructure still represent challenges in the region.
Despite severe disruption in the Middle East and North Africa—tied in large measure to the Iraq conflict—GDP growth jumped from 3.3 percent in
2002	to 5.1 percent in 2003, the strongest economic performance since 1991. Underpinning the growth was a sharp upturn in growth in the region’s oil-exporting
economies, which grew 5.7 percent in 2003, up from
3.6	percent in 2002.
Growth recovery in Latin America and the Caribbean has been slower, partly because of uneven performance across countries. Regional GDP advanced
1.3	percent in 2003, following a contraction of 0.6 percent during 2002. The region’s GDP is expected to grow 3.8 percent in 2004. (Figure 5.1 shows GDP per capita by region, 1993 to 2003.)
Growth in developing countries overall is expected to grow 5.4 percent in 2004—the strongest growth in two decades—before easing back toward 5 percent in 2005-06. In this context, the Bank continues to adapt its activities to respond to country needs for lending and advisory services.
KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND ANALYTIC AND ADVISORY SERVICES
The Bank’s store of development knowledge has always been an important element of its assistance to client countries. Analytic and advisory services include economic and sector work, technical assistance, and research services. Capacity enhancement includes initiating outreach that enables client countries to access global knowledge.
Research
Country research—which forms the core of the Bank’s knowledge base—culminates in a number of knowledge products, including Policy Research Working Papers, development data, analyses of development prospects, and a wide range of development publications. One flagship publication, the annual World Development Report, incorporates research from across the Bank. Its findings form the basis for Bank activities and are a catalyst for further research.
World Development Report 2004: Making Services Work for Poor People focused on one pillar of the Bank’s
Turkish farmer with food intended for export.
strategy—investing in and empowering poor people— and included evidence from multiple impact evaluations on how best to deliver health, education, and infrastructure services. Such systematic evaluations help policy makers decide how best to allocate scarce resources—which programs and policies should be replicated, which should be modified, and which should be eliminated.
The report cited the evaluation of the Progresa Program in Mexico, which offers monthly cash payments to poor families conditional on their children’s school attendance and participation in health programs. The rigorous independent evaluation convinced the Mexican authorities to expand the program to benefit 20 percent of the Mexican people. The knowledge acquired through this evaluation was relevant not only for Mexico but for other countries that are now carrying out similar programs.
The Bank’s research department conducted several new impact evaluations in fiscal 2004. These included evaluations of targeted transfer programs similar to
Progresa in Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, and China; community-driven development interventions in Georgia, Indonesia, Pakistan, and the Philippines; rural roads investments in Vietnam; sanitation programs in Bangladesh and India; teacher and health worker incentives in several countries in Africa and Asia; and the use of the press and information campaigns in Uganda.
World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone focuses on the other pillar of the Bank’s strategy—building the climate for investment— and notes that investment climate conditions vary tremendously across as well as within countries. The report draws on numerous data sources and country case studies to identify emerging lessons of experience in designing and carrying out investment climate improvements that will contribute to growth and poverty reduction. It focuses on the four interrelated ways that governments influence the decisions of firms: through the cost of doing business, the risks associated with pursuing opportunities, the direct barriers to opportunities, and the competitive pressures that firms face.
The World Development Report 2006: Equity and Development will assess the nature of inequality in the developing world and the role it plays in economic development and poverty reduction. High levels of inequality make it harder to reduce poverty in its various dimensions and to meet the Millennium Development Goals. The report will describe levels of inequality and recent trends within and across countries, examining the extent to which such inequalities matter and how they can be reduced in ways that promote growth and economic efficiency.
Economic and Sector Work
Economic and sector work (ESW) augments the Bank’s lending activities, increasing the impact on development. Economic and sector work products include core diagnostic reports for Country Assistance Strategies and overall policy dialogue, country advisory and regional reports that provide advice on special topics, and less formal products such as policy notes, workshops, and conferences. ESW increasingly emphasizes country ownership, participatory processes, partnerships, and capacity building.
The majority of advisory work in fiscal 2004 examined financial and private sector development and public sector governance. Much work also examined human development, social protection, and rural
development, which helped provide the basis for project design and country programming. The Bank’s Investment Climate Assessment for Poland sought to identify features of the investment climate that matter most for productivity, particularly for poor men and women, as well as priority areas for reform. A policy note for the Indian authorities was delivered on a quick-response basis to identify measures that could be adopted to improve India’s fiscal stance. Country Financial Accountability Assessments, undertaken for countries such as Djibouti and Uganda, analyzed the strengths and weaknesses of countries’ public sector financial accountability arrangements and informed the governments’ design of programs for building financial management capacity. Regional reports exploring such issues as trade, health, and income distribution supplemented country reports.
During fiscal 2004 the Bank delivered 734 economic and sector work products to clients (table 5.1). Of these, 122 were core diagnostic reports that underpinned Country Assistance Strategies, Poverty Reduction Support Credits, and other adjustment lending and that facilitated policy dialogue with clients. The Bank also produced a significant number of informal products, reflecting the increased emphasis on capacity building and the provision of “just-in-time” analysis designed to help countries achieve quick results.
About 30 percent of the fiscal 2004 program was delivered by the Bank’s Africa region; another 21 percent was delivered by the Europe and Central Asia region. The East Asia and Pacific region and the Middle East and North Africa region focused on increased use of programmatic economic and sector work, and the Middle East and North Africa region continued its involvement in the reimbursable Technical Cooperation Program. (For more information on how the Bank is collaborating with bilateral and multilateral donors, see www.countryanalyticwork.net.)
Capacity Enhancement
In fiscal 2004 the World Bank Institute (WBI) shifted its strategy to supporting long-term institutional capacity building and customizing its programs to specific country needs. At the same time, it continues to reach broader audiences through distance learning on topics of global interest and to build informal groups of decision makers who share knowledge on common development problems. These “communities of practice” contribute to a more informed dialogue, often leading to improved development outcomes.
Note: Includes deliveries by both regions and networks.
They also help members solve problems and answer questions that come up in their daily work.
WBI was instrumental in organizing the six-monthlong global learning and knowledge-sharing process leading up to the Shanghai Scaling Up Poverty Reduction Conference held in China in May 2004. The conference brought together more than 1,200 participants to discuss successful approaches to poverty reduction based on some 100 case studies about how programs, policies, and projects could be replicated on a wide scale. Key decision makers shared insights with
As part of China's lifelong learning project, the World Bank Institute's Knowledge for Development Program organized a field visit by key Chinese representatives from various ministries. The group studied leading educational institutions and private sector companies in Mexico and the United States to assess models for quality and accreditation systems, distance education, and large-scale retraining.
At the request of Madagascar's president, WBI prepared and conducted a retreat for senior political and administrative leaders of the new government to help them formulate a national development strategy. Enlisting a team of leaders and policy makers from countries around the world,
WBI was able to foster an intensive South-South exchange on how to improve the investment climate and governance.
In developing a Capacity Enhancement Needs Assessment for Nigeria, WBI worked closely with key stakeholders to identify their capacity enhancement needs, inviting them to determine the content as well as the methods to be used to build capacity. It also encouraged them to develop a shared vision of the future and a plan of action. In addition to traditional courses and seminars, this assessment identifies other means of knowledge exchange through networks and communities of practice, stakeholder dialogues, peer learning, and mass communication.
peers from other developing and developed countries about what worked, what did not, and why, within different economic, social, and institutional contexts.
Some 20 multicountry, interactive videoconference dialogues were held before the Shanghai conference to give authors early feedback on the case studies being prepared for the conference. For example, a three-hour videoconference on scaling up poverty reduction through community-driven development was held at Global Development Learning Network sites in Beijing, Colombo, Delhi, Hanoi, and Paris in February 2004.
WBI works more and more closely with the Bank’s operational country teams to ensure that the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategies address capacity
The GDLN Studio in the World Bank headquarters in Washington, D.C., where a dialogue with Afghan women is taking place.
enhancement. To date the institute has contributed to 19 such strategies, including those for Brazil, India, and Kenya. WBI has also responded to the Bank’s results agenda by emphasizing monitoring and evaluation, with a focus on intermediate outcomes. In fiscal 2004 it completed 12 outcome and impact evaluations, and another 13 are being prepared.
As always, WBI provides traditional courses and seminars. Today it also identifies other means of exchanging knowledge, such as networks and communities of practice, dialogues among stakeholders, peer learning, and mass communication. In addition, it has developed diagnostic and analytical tools that help countries assess their governance practices and their preparedness to compete in the global knowledge economy.
Part of WBI’s new country focus has been to decentralize its programs gradually to take advantage of local expertise and combine efforts with local donors and learning organizations. Most recently, WBI and the Middle East and North Africa region launched the Marseilles Knowledge Hub, which serves the Middle East and North Africa. This small office will draw on local and global experts to exchange knowledge and help design programs on topics such as urban management, governance, and education. WBI also maintains a presence in Almaty, Beijing, Cairo, Moscow, Paris, and Tokyo. (See box 5.1.)
In partnership with local training centers and through the Global Development Learning Network’s distance-learning facilities, the World Bank Institute delivered 1,016 training activities to 78,500 participants in some 124 countries in fiscal 2004. (See box 1.1 in chapter 1.)
WORLD BANK LENDING IN FISCAL 2004
The World Bank comprises cooperative institutions that mobilize financing from member shareholder equity by borrowing from international capital markets (for IBRD) and by means of outright contributions from the richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources to benefit poor people in borrowing countries.
Country lending reflects the Bank’s focus on achieving the Millennium Development Goals. It is tailored to individual country needs, with lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible.
IBRD’s clients are generally middle-income countries and, because of the limitation on IDA resources, some of the larger low-income countries that are deemed creditworthy for borrowing. IBRD offers loans that have long maturities and reflect its own favorable market costs. In fiscal 2004 IBRD provided $11 billion in loans in support of 87 projects in 33 countries.
IDA’s clients are the poorest countries, which usually cannot afford to borrow on commercial terms. IDA offers grants and concessional, no-interest loans (called “development credits”) to these countries, which are normally repayable in 35-40 years including a 10-year grace period. In fiscal 2004 IDA provided $9 billion in financing for 158 projects in 62 low-income countries.
Poverty reduction is at the core of lending by both IBRD and IDA, through investments that support growth as well as investments in basic public services. Through partnerships with other institutions, other funds are also made available for projects. Figures 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4 show IBRD and IDA lending for fiscal 2004 by region, theme, and sector. Table 5.2 shows World Bank lending by theme and sector. A detailed explanation of the Bank’s financing is contained in volume 2 of this Annual Report.
The Role of IBRD
In fiscal 2004 countries with per capita income of less than $5,115 that were not IDA-only borrowers were eligible to borrow from IBRD. Countries with higher per capita incomes were able to borrow under special circumstances or as part of a graduation strategy. It is important to note, however, that the amount that IBRD is prepared to lend to eligible countries at any given time depends on their creditworthiness as individual IBRD borrowers. Countries may be eligible to borrow but may not have access to IBRD resources because of poor creditworthiness. Net IBRD loans
outstanding to any individual borrowing country, irrespective of a borrower’s creditworthiness, may not exceed $13.5 billion.
Seventy-five percent of people who live on less than $1 a day live in countries that receive IBRD lending. The borrowers are typically middle-income countries that enjoy some access to private capital markets. Some countries that are eligible for IDA lending as a result of their low per capita incomes are also creditworthy for some IBRD borrowing. These countries are known as “blend borrowers.” Even excluding IBRD loans to the blend countries, 25 percent of those who live on less than $1 a day live in countries that are IBRD
borrowers. IBRD provides important support for poverty reduction by helping clients gain access to capital in larger volumes, on better terms, at longer maturities, and in a more sustainable manner than the market provides.
IBRD is a AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments. Its member borrowers have a voice in setting its policies. IBRD loans (and IDA credits) are typically accompanied by advisory services to ensure more effective use of funds. Unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact rather than profit maximization.
IBRD Lending
At $11 billion, new lending commitments by IBRD in fiscal 2004 were close to the previous year’s level. The share of adjustment lending was slightly higher than fiscal 2003.
Latin America and the Caribbean received the highest level of IBRD lending, with $5.0 billion or 45 percent of total IBRD commitments, followed by Europe and Central Asia with $3.0 billion and East Asia and Pacific with $1.7 billion. Lending was slightly more concentrated than it was in fiscal 2003. Whereas five countries received roughly 49 percent of total lending in fiscal 2003, four countries—Argentina, Turkey, Brazil, and China—received a combined commitment volume equaling 51 percent of total IBRD lending in fiscal 2004.
Among sectors, public administration, including law and justice, received the highest volume of IBRD lending, with $2.7 billion, followed by transportation with $2.5 billion and health and social services with $1.8 billion.
The thematic composition of lending in fiscal 2004 was led by financial and private sector development, followed by public sector governance and human development. Figures 5.5, 5.6, and 5.7 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector. Table 5.3 shows World Bank adjustment commitments in fiscal 2001-04.
IBRD Resources
As part of its regular financing operations, IBRD raised $13 billion at medium- to long-term maturities in international capital markets in fiscal 2004. This funding volume was below the $19 billion raised in fiscal 2003. IBRD issued debt securities in 10 currencies with a wide range of maturities and structures in fiscal 2004. Product diversification helps IBRD expand its investor base and reduce lending rates on its loans. IBRD’s financial strength is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices designed to maintain a high credit standing in international financial markets.
IBRD Financial Strength. IBRD’s operating income in fiscal 2004 was $1,696 million, and allocable net income (which can be allocated to reserves and development activities) was $1,675 million. IBRD retained $680 million out of allocable net income in its general reserve in keeping with IBRD’s strategy to preserve long-term financial strength and support other development needs. IBRD also added $405 million of the
fiscal 2004 income to the surplus account. IBRD transferred $300 million to IDA, $240 million to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund, and $50 million to the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries in fiscal 2004. IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2004 to ensure its ability to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2004, the liquid asset portfolio was about $31 billion.
Maintaining Financial Strength. As a cooperative institution IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn a return on assets sufficient to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. IBRD achieves an annual net return on average earning assets of about 1 percent a year. In fiscal 2004 the net return on average earning assets returned to the 1 percent level after having risen above 2 percent in fiscal 2003 due to a reduction in the provision for loan loss.
Figure 5.8 shows the net return on average earning assets for fiscal 2000-04.
Managing Risk. Consistent with its development mandate, the principal risk taken by IBRD is the country
credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange rates are minimized, and the Bank remains highly active in global credit markets to deliver financial instruments
a. In fiscal 2001 IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133 and International Accounting Standard No. 39, which require that derivative instruments be reported at fair value. The returns shown above for fiscal 2001-04 are presented excluding the effects of these standards to facilitate comparison with prior years. With the inclusion of the effects of these standards, the ratios would be 0.87, 1.87, 3.64, and -1.67 for fiscal years 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004, respectively.
on the finest terms that are best suited to the needs of borrowers. One summary measure of the Bank’s risk profile is the ratio of balance sheet equity to outstanding loans, which is closely managed in line with the Bank’s financial and risk outlook. Figure 5.9 shows the equity-to-loans ratio as of June 30, 2004.
Achieving Efficient Intermediation. IBRD enjoys an exceptional franchise in capital markets, in large part reflecting the capital commitments of its sovereign shareholders and the preferred creditor status accorded by its borrowing members that support its high credit rating (AAA) and allow it to borrow for long maturities on favorable terms. This is reflected in the relatively low cost basis of its new borrowings, an average spread of about 38 basis points (1 basis point equals 0.01 percent) below the London InterBank Offered Rate in fiscal 2004, and the high volumes it can intermediate at low cost.
At the end of fiscal 2004 the Bank’s outstanding borrowings from capital markets exceeded $103 billion
(net of swaps), and its total disbursed and outstanding loans were approximately $110 billion. The size of borrowings was about three times the size of its equity. Figure 5.10 shows the Bank’s borrowings and investments as of June 30, 2004. Table 5.4 shows select IBRD financial data for fiscal years 2003 and 2004.
Generation and Distribution of IBRD’s Net Income
IBRD earns income from the interest margin on its loans (returns on loans less cost of borrowings), the interest margin on its investments, and contributions from its equity. Barring unexpected credit events,
IBRD generates net income after allowing for loan loss-provisioning expenses and administrative expenses, including its contribution to staff retirement accounts.
IBRD’s allocable net income serves several purposes related to the Bank’s mission. A portion of net income is retained each year to ensure IBRD’s financial integrity. The general reserve allows IBRD to assume credit risk in lending to countries at the lowest funding costs, which in turn benefits borrowers. Income retention has enabled IBRD to maintain financial soundness through periods of deteriorating loan quality and surging loan demand.
Support to IDA has consistently been a priority. Over the last five years, $1,522 million (or about
Table 5.4 Select IBRD Financial Data I millions of dollars
17 percent of IBRD’s allocable net income) has been transferred to IDA.
Support for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative has also been important. Over the past five years, transfers to the HIPC Trust Fund have amounted to a total of about $1,070 million, averaging about 12 percent of annual IBRD allocable net income.
IBRD’s allocable net income helps meet other development needs from time to time. It enables IBRD to respond to unforeseen humanitarian crises and to provide grants or other support for worthy causes. IBRD also regularly shares income with its borrowing members through partial waivers of commitment fees and, for qualifying borrowers, waivers of contractual interest charges on loans.
Financial strength and standing in the markets allow IBRD to leverage its equity by four times in the international bond markets. This leverage increases IBRD’s ability to lend for development activities.
Figure 5.11 shows the proposed allocation of the Bank’s net operating income.
The Role of IDA
IDA is the largest single source of concessional financial assistance for the world’s poorest countries. It invests in basic economic and human development projects.
Eligibility for IDA resources is governed by a country’s level of poverty (as measured by per capita income) and its lack of creditworthiness for IBRD resources. In fiscal 2004 countries with annual per capita gross national income of up to $865 were eligible for IDA assistance. (In exceptional circumstances, IDA extends eligibility to countries, such as small
island economies, that are above the income cutoff but are not creditworthy to borrow from IBRD.)
The amount of IDA resources that countries receive depends on the quality of their policies to promote growth and reduce poverty, which are assessed annually.
IDA recipient countries face complex challenges in striving to meet the Millennium Development Goals. Policy priorities include strengthening the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases, building a healthy investment climate as a prerequisite for private sector investment, promoting gender equality, and improving the quality of basic education and poor people’s access to it.
Traditionally, IDA provided assistance in the form of highly concessional credits. In fiscal 2003 it introduced the expanded use of grants, designed to address hardships faced by the poorest and most debt-vulnerable IDA countries. The grants are used to finance HIV/AIDS programs, natural disaster reconstruction, and postconflict reconstruction.
IDA is financed by its own resources and by donor governments, which come together every three years to decide on the amount of new resources required to fund IDA’s future lending program and to discuss lending policies and priorities. Since 2001 senior-level representatives from borrowing countries have also participated in these replenishment discussions.
Historically, donor contributions have been determined on the basis of countries’ relative economic strength and on their commitment to poor countries. The major industrial nations have thus been the largest contributors to IDA. But donor nations also include developing countries and transition economies—some of them IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers— including Argentina, Brazil, Hungary, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Turkey. IDA’s financial strength is based on the strong and continued support of its donors, as well as on repayments of past credits. (See IDA at www.worldbank.org.)
IDA Commitments
IDA commitments in fiscal 2004 reached $9 billon for 158 operations, consisting of $7.3 billion in credits and $1.7 billion in grants. IDA also provided a guarantee for $70 million. The volume of IDA commitments in fiscal 2004 represents a record in the history of IDA.
The largest share of IDA resources was committed to Africa, with $4.1 billion, constituting 45 percent of total IDA commitments. South Asia and East Asia and
Pacific followed with $3 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. Among countries, Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of Congo, India, Pakistan, and Vietnam represent the largest single recipients.
In fiscal 2004, about 19 percent of total IDA financing was provided in the form of grants to the following clients and projects: the poorest countries, $264 million; debt-vulnerable countries, $529 million; postconflict countries, $536 million; HIV/AIDS projects and those with HIV/AIDS-related components, $381 million; and natural disaster reconstruction projects,
$2 million.
Public administration, including law and justice, was the leading sector receiving IDA support, with $2.3 billion, or 24 percent of the total. There was also significant support provided to the health and social services and transportation sectors, each representing $1.2 billion, or 14 percent of the total.
The two most prominent themes were public sector governance and financial and private sector development, each accounting for about 19 percent of IDA commitments. Major attention was also paid to human development with 17 percent, social development and gender with 13 percent, and rural development with 10 percent. Figures 5.12, 5.13, and 5.14 show IDA lending by region, theme, and sector.
IDA Resources
The 13th Replenishment of IDA (IDA13), which governs IDA operations for fiscal 2003-05, will provide a total of 18 billion in special drawing rights (SDRs) (about $23 billion) in concessional resources to eligible countries. This amount includes SDR 10 billion (about $13 billion) in new donor contributions; SDR 7.3 billion (about $9 billion) in IDA internal resources, including repayments of principal from past credits and investment income; SDR 0.7 billion (about $0.9 billion) in IBRD net income transfers (if available); and a small carryover of donor resources from the previous replenishment. Figure 5.15 shows the sources of IDA’s funding over the last three replenishments.
Under IDA13 a major initiative was launched to strengthen IDA’s focus on results. This initiative included development of a system to measure and monitor the results of IDA assistance across countries and to track the contribution made by IDA programming to country outcomes. Figure 5.16 shows IDA’s stepped-up commitments in the social sectors.
Negotiations for the 14th Replenishment of IDA were launched in February 2004, when donor and
education, or on a large subsector, such as primary education. Many low-income countries, particularly in Africa, began pursuing SWAps in the mid-1990s in an effort to move away from fragmented projects to a country-led approach based on a comprehensive program.
Over the past decade, more than 30 Bank operations have supported SWAps, mostly in social sectors in Africa and South Asia. The Bank has collaborated with other development partners to organize external financing based on a common policy framework and a comprehensive sector program or investment plan. Harmonization of planning, monitoring and evaluation, reporting, auditing, disbursement, and procurement systems has usually been a major part of this effort. Pooling of governments’ and partners’ resources is increasingly used. In low-income countries the use of SWAps has helped improve the coordination of external resources. In middle-income countries they are increasingly seen as a way to align the Bank’s support with a country’s own strategy and systems and to reduce the transaction costs often associated with isolated projects.
Bank support for SWAps has grown over the past few years, as greater emphasis has been placed on country ownership, harmonization, results, and alignment with country systems and procedures. Ongoing efforts to simplify and modernize the Bank’s internal policies and procedures enhance its ability to support the concept of sectorwide approaches more effectively, given the flexibility required for coordination with multiple development partners. Changes in the Bank’s audit policies, expenditures eligible for Bank financing, and procurement guidelines, along with the move toward streamlined report-based disbursement, are all intended to enhance country results and also facilitate the sectorwide approach process.
borrower representatives met in Paris. Main issues discussed included debt sustainability, IDA’s performance-based allocation system, how to finance IDA grants, and the findings of recent independent evaluations of IDA’s experience with country-led development.
Innovations in Lending
As part of the effort to enhance development impact, an increasing number of Bank loans support sector-wide approaches, known as SWAps. These efforts typically focus on an entire sector within a country, such as
Debt Relief and Debt Sustainability
The Bank continued to provide debt relief to the world’s poorest and most heavily indebted countries in fiscal 2004. It also worked to improve debt sustainability—long-term debt management—in low-income countries in an effort to help these countries meet the Millennium Development Goals.
As part of a comprehensive development strategy, the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (http://www.worldbank.org/hipc) is well on its way to achieving its primary goal of giving a fresh start to countries by cutting their external debt to manageable
levels. Twenty-seven countries—two-thirds of those eligible—are participating, receiving debt relief that will total more than $52 billion from creditors over time. Fourteen of these countries have reached the completion point—the point at which creditors provide all of the remaining debt relief promised at the decision point. Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Nicaragua, Niger, and Senegal reached the completion point in fiscal 2004. Eight other countries—Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda—reached the completion point before fiscal 2004. Thirteen countries have reached the decision point and are receiving interim relief.
Key challenges remain for the HIPC Initiative. These include encouraging countries, many of which are affected by conflict, to reach the decision point— the point at which the international community agrees on the amount of debt relief a country needs to reduce its debt to a sustainable level and interim relief begins—by the end of 2004, the deadline for potentially eligible countries; encouraging countries that have reached the decision point to proceed expeditiously toward meeting the requirements for reaching the completion point; improving participation by certain non-Paris Club official bilateral, commercial, and small multilateral creditors; and continuing to support HIPC’s pro-poor growth strategies.
The debt relief program has significantly reduced debt stock in heavily indebted poor countries (figure 5.17) and has allowed social spending in those countries to rise (figure 5.18).
Child health care in India.
The Bank’s efforts to reduce poor countries’ debt have expanded beyond the HIPC Initiative to address longer-term issues of debt sustainability. For many low-income countries, mobilizing sufficient financing to meet their development objectives, embodied in
Woman spinning cotton thread in Bangladesh.
the Millennium Development Goals, while avoiding a potentially unmanageable debt burden represents a serious challenge.
Staff from the Bank and the International Monetary Fund are developing a new approach to assessing debt sustainability in low-income countries outside the HIPC Initiative. This approach is designed to take into account each country’s circumstances and to guide lending decisions that balance a country’s need for funds with its ability to service debt. The approach reflects extensive consultations with government officials, multilateral and bilateral donors, academics, and civil society organizations.
TRUST FUNDS
Trust funds are financial and administrative arrangements between external donors and the Bank that provide grant funding to address diverse development needs, including project preparation, technical assistance, advisory services, debt relief, postconflict transition, and the cofinancing of investment projects. Trust fund financing contributes to the Bank’s poverty
reduction mission by supporting innovative approaches to projects and expanding the scope of development collaboration. Donors include many industrial countries, a few of the larger developing countries, the private sector, and foundations. Increasingly such resources support multidonor programmatic instruments that underpin many of the Bank’s external partnerships. Single-donor programmatic trust funds (for example, Japan’s Policy and Human Resource Development Fund) also continue to be important instruments for supporting work with client countries. (See www.worldbank.org.)
Contributions
The Bank’s trust fund portfolio was further expanded in fiscal 2004. Contributions received from donors totaled $4.9 billion, an increase of $0.46 billion, or 10 percent, over fiscal 2003. Funds held in trust rose from $6.89 billion to $8.6 billion, a 25 percent increase. These figures reflect contributions received on a cash basis for all trust funds except HIPC, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), for which contributions are recorded on an accrual basis. The top 10 donors in fiscal 2004, shown in table 5.5, accounted for 86 percent of all contributions.
Disbursements
Disbursements during the year totaled $3.28 billion, an increase of $0.72 billion, or 28 percent, over fiscal 2003. The five programs with the largest disbursements were HIPC ($941 million); GFATM ($429 million); GEF ($398 million); the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund ($218 million); and the West Bank and Gaza Trust Fund ($170 million). Together these programs disbursed $2.16 billion, or 66 percent of total disbursements. Disbursements for all trust funds are reported on a cash basis. Contributions and disbursements are shown in figure 5.19.
Fund Balances and Investments
The level of fund balances has increased steadily to $8.6 billion in fiscal 2004, which is more than double the level in fiscal 2000. Most of this increase resulted from the establishment of large programmatic multidonor trust funds.
Major New Trust Fund Programs
In response to emerging development challenges, the donor community agreed to establish several new
major trust funds and programs during fiscal 2004, with the Bank as administrator. These included a multidonor trust fund for Iraq, for which donors had pledged approximately $400 million for reconstruction; a multidonor supported Education for All Fast-Track Initiative Catalytic Trust Fund, for which $250 million is earmarked for contributions between fiscal 2004 and 2007; and a multidonor commitment in the amount of up to $185 million for a West Bank and Gaza Public Financial Management Reform Trust Fund, which serves as a budget support facility, cofinancing the existing Bank-funded structural adjustment operation for the Palestinian Authority.
Update on Selected Trust Funds
Fiscal 2004 activities of three of the many trust funds administered by the Bank are described here.
Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis. The Bank administers a trust fund program launched in fiscal
2003	in partnership with the Gates Foundation, Rotary International, and the United Nations Foundation, to help eradicate poliomyelitis worldwide by 2005. To achieve this goal, the partnership uses an innovative financing mechanism in which trust fund resources are used to create financial incentives linked to eradication results. Once the performance goals of eradication efforts, funded by IDA credits, are achieved, trust fund resources are used to write off the debt, thus turning the IDA credit into a grant. As of the end of fiscal 2004, donor contributions to the trust fund totaled $39 million. The project was one of three selected to receive the Bank’s Presidential Award for Excellence in December 2003.
The Least Developed Countries (LDC) Fund for Climate Change. The LDC Fund was established in September 2002 to address the needs of least developed countries whose specific economic and geophysical characteristics make them especially vulnerable to the impact of global warming and climate change. In its initial phase the LDC Fund supports the preparation of national adaptation programs of action. The Global Environment Facility administers the fund and the Bank acts as its trustee. As of the end of fiscal 2004, $33 million had been pledged by 12 donor countries, and $17 million had been received; more than $9 million had already been allocated for 43 national projects and 2 global support projects, and most of these projects had begun their implementation.
Iraq Trust Fund (ITF). At the Madrid Donor Conference in October 2003, the international donor community ratified the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq, comprising the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund and the United Nations Development Group Iraq Trust Fund, united through a common governance structure that ensures close coordination. The Board approved the Bank’s role as Administrator of the ITF in January 2004. Donors had pledged approximately $400 million to the World Bank Trust Fund by the end of fiscal 2004. The ITF is focused on building institutional capacity and addressing urgent reconstruction
and economic transition needs. A $3.6 million capacity-building project has supported 14 different sectoral and project management courses. A $40 million emergency project is financing primary and secondary school textbooks for the 2004-05 school year. Other projects address school rehabilitation, private sector development, infrastructure, and public health.
Cofinancing
Cofinanced funds are committed to complement specific Bank-funded projects by official bilateral and mul-
tilateral partners, export credit agencies, and private sources. These funds enable the Bank to leverage additional financing, mostly at concessional terms, to benefit recipient countries. The Bank’s major cofinancing partners in fiscal 2004 included the Inter-American Development Bank ($3.7 billion), the European Commission ($640 million), and the British Department for International Development ($612 million). Regions benefiting from cofinanced projects included Latin America and the Caribbean ($4 billion), Africa ($3 billion), and South Asia ($1.3 billion).
TO FIGHT POVERTY WITH PASSION AND PROFESSIONALISM FOR LASTING RESULTS.
TO HELP PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES AND THEIR ENVIRONMENT BY PROVIDING RESOURCES, SHARING KNOWLEDGE, BUILDING CAPACITY, AND FORGING PARTNERSHIPS IN THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS.
TO BE AN EXCELLENT INSTITUTION ABLE TO ATTRACT, EXCITE, AND NURTURE DIVERSE AND COMMITTED STAFF WITH EXCEPTIONAL SKILLS WHO KNOW HOW TO LISTEN AND LEARN.



1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD’s main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and programs in its developing member countries. IBRD’s ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD’s financial objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD’s financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD’s principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD’s outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis, in which the cost of funding the loans, plus a lending spread, is passed through to the borrower.
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD’s equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expense in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements of major currencies compared to IBRD’s reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement
reporting do not significantly impact IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments in FY 2004 were $11.0 billion, which was slightly lower than the FY 2003 level of $11.2 billion.
FY 2004 operating income was $1,696 million, $1,325 million lower than that for FY 2003, thereby decreasing IBRD's return on equity and net return on average earning assets before the effects of FAS 133a.
During FY 2004, provisioning requirements were reduced by $665 million due primarily to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings, and to a lesser extent, changes in the size and distribution of the portfolio including negative net disbursements (of which $4,614 million were prepayments).
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD’s operating environment, it is management’s practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities.
On August 3, 2004, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $[680] million of FY 2004 net income to the General Reserve and recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the following transfers from unallocated net income: $[405] million to Surplus and $[590] million to other development purposes. In addition, the Executive Directors approved a 50 basis point waiver of the front end fee on all loans (other than special structural adjustment loans) presented to the Board in FY 2005. This waiver also applies retroactively for FY 2004 to loans presented on or after March 1, 2004. The Executive Directors also approved that (i) interest charge waivers will be maintained at 5 basis points for old loans and 25 basis points for new loans respectively, to eligible borrowers for payment periods commencing during FY 2005; and (ii) waivers of 50 basis points on commitment charges for FY 2005 will be maintained for all loans.
a. For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 (Revised), “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards (together referred to in this document as the ‘reported basis’).
The standards require that all derivatives be recorded on IBRD's balance sheet at their fair value. Additionally, FAS 133 allows IBRD to designate hedging relationships and apply hedge accounting, if certain criteria are met. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of these criteria to IBRD's derivative portfolio would not consistently reflect its hedging strategies. Therefore, IBRD elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships and, as a result, all changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are recognized immediately in earnings. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed current value financial statements which IBRD believes reflect the risk management strategy that IBRD employs.
Management Reporting
In implementing its risk management strategy, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives to manage the
market risks (composed of interest rate and currency risks) associated with its financial assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/ liability management of individual positions and portfolios, and to reduce borrowing costs.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 may be more pronounced than for many other financial institutions. The effects of applying FAS 133 may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The current value model is based on the present value of expected cash flows. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements do not
Box 2: Hedging Strategy and Use of Derivatives
IBRD is a financial intermediary, borrowing funds in international capital markets for on-lending to member countries. In order to achieve the lowest funding costs, IBRD issues bonds in those currencies and markets throughout the world in which it has a comparative funding cost advantage. As a matter of policy, IBRD avoids interest rate risk in its financing operations and avoids open foreign exchange risk positions. Therefore, both on a transaction-by-transaction basis and on a portfolio basis, IBRD enters into derivatives transactions to eliminate mismatches between the interest rate and currency composition of its assets and liabilities. This approach insulates IBRD's balance sheet from material interest rate or currency exposure. (See Section 6 - Financial Risk Management)
FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be marked to market, with the effects of those changes reflected in the balance sheet and income statement. The recorded value of derivatives will therefore increase or decrease depending on movements of market interest rates and other factors. For example, IBRD has a large portfolio of derivatives that convert longdated fixed-rate borrowings into floating-rate obligations. In general, when market interest rates increase, the reported value of these derivatives will decline; similarly, declining interest rates will result in an increase in the value of these derivatives. Although these derivatives economically offset other financial positions on bonds and loans, those positions are generally not marked to market, so their reported values are not affected by interest rate movements. Thus, an asymmetry results when the value of economically offsetting transactions are reported on different bases.
FAS 133 contains hedge accounting provisions which are intended to mitigate this mismatch but in order to qualify for hedge accounting, transactions must meet particular criteria. A number of the tools that IBRD utilizes would not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedge relationships. While IBRD's policies and hedging strategy achieve its risk minimization objectives, that result is not fully evident in the reported financial statements, because the derivatives and the underlying liabilities/assets that they hedge would typically be reported on different bases under FAS 133. For management reporting purposes, IBRD instead uses current value financial statements, as shown in Table 2 in Section 2, which marks both the derivatives and the underlying liabilities and assets to market.
In FY2002 and FY2003 interest rates for most currencies were declining. Accordingly, application of FAS 133 in FY2002 and FY2003 resulted in reported net income being substantially higher than it would otherwise have been (by $854 million and $2,323 million, respectively). Conversely, application of FAS 133 in FY2004 in a rising interest rate environment resulted in a net loss on a reported basis (including a loss of $4,100 million due to application of FAS 133). Both the positive and the negative FAS 133 adjustments reflect the impact of changing rates on the marked-to-market value of the derivatives, which represent only one side of hedged transactions. The impact of changing market rates on the other side of hedged transactions - the underlying liabilities or assets - generally is not reflected in the reported financial statements. Therefore, IBRD uses current value financial statements for management reporting purposes and focuses on operating income in its annual allocation and distribution decisions.
purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole.
Current Value Basis
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD’s estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering market and credit risks. The current year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18 in Section 10.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income, with a reconciliation to the reported basis at June 30, 2004, is presented in Table 2. The prior year’s Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19 in Section 10.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to the International Finance Corporation, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD. The current value of loans incorporates management's best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan. The discount rate is based on the applicable market yield curves for IBRD's funding cost, plus IBRD’s lending spread, adjusted for available interest waivers.
Table 1: Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003
In millions of U.S. dollars
The current value also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering various factors including its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the credit risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
The $2,998 million ($6,353 million—June 30, 2003) positive adjustment to IBRD's loan balance from the reported basis to the current value basis reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair values. Fair value is based on market quotations; instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowings Portfolio
The current value of the borrowings portfolio includes debt securities and associated financial derivatives, and represents the present value of expected cash flows on these instruments. The valuation model incorporates available market data in determining the expected cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. Market data include exchange rates, reference market interest rates, interest rate volatilities and call probabilities. The $2,411 million ($4,946 million—June 30, 2003) increase in the borrowing portfolio due to current value adjustments, results from the average cost of the borrowing portfolio being higher than the rate at which IBRD could currently obtain funding.
Current Value Comprehensive Statements of Income
Current Value Adjustments
For purposes of the current value presentation, all unrealized gains and losses are presented as current value adjustments. Therefore, the change of $54 million in the mark-to-market unrealized gain on the investments, as well as a reduction in the provision
for losses on loans and guarantees of $665 million, are presented as part of the adjustment related to current value.
For FY 2004 the net current value adjustment declined by $513 million (increase of $394 million for FY 2003) as shown in Table 3. The current value adjustment reflects the effects of changes in both interest rates and currency exchange rates.
Impact of Changes in Interest Rates
During the year ended June 30, 2004, the net decrease in the current value adjustments on the balance sheet was $839 million. This net decrease is the result of a $3,355 million decrease in unrealized gains in the loan portfolio, offset by a $2,535 million decrease in unrealized losses in the borrowings portfolio, and a $19 million decrease in unrealized gains in other asset/liability swaps. Interest rates for the reference markets increased during the fiscal year thereby decreasing the current value adjustments for all portfolios (see Figure 11).
Impact of Changes in Exchange Rates During FY 2004 and FY 2003, there was a positive net currency translation adjustment as both the euro and the Japanese yen appreciated against the U.S. dollar.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2004, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $342,552 million to borrowers in 129 countries. A summary of cumulative lending is contained in Table 4.
Table 4: Lending Status at June 30
a.	Net of cancellations.
b.	Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of receipt.
Box 3: Lending Operations Principles
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories
of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD’s loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member
countries. Projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD’s standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness.
(iii)In	making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country’s economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)IBRD	must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member’s overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. IBRD is intended to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)The	use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency.
At June 30, 2004, the total volume of outstanding loans was $109,610 million, $6,630 million lower than the $116,240 million of outstanding loans at June 30, 2003. This decrease was due to negative net disbursements, including $4,614 million of prepayments, partially offset by positive currency translation adjustments. Undisbursed balances at June 30, 2004 totaled $32,128 million, a decrease of $903 million from June 30, 2003. This change was due to cancellations and disbursements, partially offset by new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments.
During FY 2004, commitments of new loans to member countries were $11,045 million, ($11,231 million—FY 2003). During both FY 2004 and FY
2003,	Latin America and the Caribbean accounted for the largest share of commitments. Figure 1 presents the regional composition of commitments from FY 2000 to FY 2004.
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2004, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees) totaled $106,509 million, equal to 49.7% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD’s lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD
loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 3. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing a loan often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD’s operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptionsa, each loan must be approved by IBRD’s Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. An independent IBRD unit, the Operations Evaluation Department, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives, and these evaluations are reported directly to the Executive Directors.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or adjustment lending. Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, adjustment lending generally supports social, structural, and institutional reforms. In the past, the majority of IBRD loans were for investment projects or programs. However, as shown in Figure 2 the percentage of IBRD loans approved for adjustment lending over the past seven years occasionally exceeded 50 percent.
a.	For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of $5 million or less approved by Management.
In FY 2004, new IBRD commitments for adjustment lending accounted for 40% of total commitments (37%—FY 2003; 64%—FY 2002).
In FY 1999, IBRD introduced special structural and sector adjustment loans to support structural and social reforms by creditworthy IBRD borrowers with exceptional external financing needs due to a potential or actual crisis.
On rare occasions, IBRD will provide enclave lending for a large, foreign exchange generating project in a member country usually eligible only for loans from the International Development Association (IDA). In these circumstances appropriate risk mitigation measures are incorporated (including off-shore escrow accounts and debt-service reserves acceptable to IBRD) to ensure that the risks to IBRD are minimized. At June 30, 2004, IBRD had $135 million in outstanding loans for enclave projects ($116 million—June 30, 2003). No new enclave lending was approved during FY 2004 or FY 2003.
Financial Terms of Loans
Financial Terms of Currently Available Products
IBRD currently offers a product mix that is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capacity. As of June 30, 2004, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD can efficiently intermediate: variable-spread loans, and fixed-spread loans. Variable-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 1993, have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 2000,
have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan.
Borrowers selecting the fixed-spread loan product may, for a fee, change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan. For example, borrowers have the option to fix, unfix, or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for up to the remaining maturity of the loan.
Transaction fees range from 0 to 25 basis points of the notional transaction amount. Any conversion requests accepted by IBRD are executed at market rates.
Table 5 summarizes the financial terms for these types of loans.
Repayment terms for fixed-spread loans are more flexible than for variable-spread loans, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis.
Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a
Table 5: Loan Pricing - Financial Terms of Currently Available Products
Basis Points
manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a single lumpsum repayment, or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
Prior to the introduction of special structural and sector adjustment loans, IBRD approved and disbursed several large loans totaling $7,000 million on non-standard loan terms. These loans, which were issued in response to the global financial crises of FY 1998 and FY 1999, carry a six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed spread ranging from 75 to 100 basis points and a front-end fee. None of these loans is eligible for waivers of interest or commitment charges. During FY 2004, $1,731 million of these loans were repaid (including prepayments of $831 million), resulting in an outstanding balance on these loans of $3,469 million at June 30, 2004.
a.	Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
b.	Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
c.	The market risk premium is meant to compensate IBRD for additional funding risk associated with this product.
d.	The commitment charge is 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points	thereafter to compensate IBRD for additional funding and
refinancing risk associated with this product.
e.	On August 3, 2004 the Board of Executive Directors approved a 50 basis point waiver of the front end fee on all loans (other than special structural adjustment loans) to be presented to the Board in FY 2005. This waiver also applies retroactively for FY 2004 to loans presented on or after March 1, 2004.
At June 30, 2004, 56% (49%—June 30, 2003) of loans outstanding were variable-spread loans or fixed-spread loans, including special structural and sector adjustment loans and loans with non-standard terms.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option A Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD adjustment loans gives IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for standard IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed.
Derivative Products
Along with the approval of the introduction of the fixed-spread loan product with its various risk management features such as rate fixing and currency conversion, the Executive Directors also approved the offer of new derivative products for borrowers. These products respond to borrowers’ needs for access to better risk management tools in
connection with existing IBRD loans. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars.
IBRD will pass through its market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions. The first such currency swap transaction was executed between IBRD and one of its borrowers under a Master Derivatives Agreement in November 2003. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D.
Financial Terms of Previously Available Products
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other financial terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fixed-rate single currency loans.
Table 6 summarizes the financial terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans and fixed-rate single-currency loans.
a.	Converted from variable-rate multicurrency pool loans.
b.	Cost base and spread are fixed on rate-fixing date for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months.
c.	Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
d.	Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Prior to 1980, IBRD offered loans at fixed rates determined at the time a loan was contracted and set at a specified spread over then-current borrowing costs. The currency composition of each loan depended on the currencies disbursed on that loan. In 1980, IBRD established the currency pool system, funded primarily with fixed rate medium-to-long term borrowings. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from offering a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
During FY 1997, IBRD offered borrowers the option to elect to modify their currency choice by converting multicurrency pool loans to single currency loan terms or single currency pool terms. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans.
Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro. Fixed-rate single currency loans were offered in all currencies in which IBRD could efficiently intermediate.
Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were subsequently converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fixed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
At June 30, 2004, 44% (51%—June 30, 2003) of loans outstanding carried these previously available financial terms.
Figure 3 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full
payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 7 presents a breakdown of IBRD’s loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D.
Table 7: Loan Charge Waivers
Basis points
a.	On loans to eligible borrowers.
b.	On August 3, 2004 the Board of Executive Directors approved a 50 basis point waiver of the front end fee on all loans (other than special structural adjustment loans) to be presented to the Board in FY 2005. This waiver also applies retroactively for FY 2004 to loans presented on or after March 1, 2004.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD, although they can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans, and in exceptional cases offered in countries only eligible to borrow from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks, generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
a.	Includes fixed-rate single currency loans for which the rate had not yet been fixed at fiscal year-end.
b.	Includes loans issued prior to 1980, loans to IFC, and fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans.
c.	Includes loans with non-standard terms.
* Indicates amounts less than 0.5%.
IBRD generally provides the following types of guarantees:
Partial risk guarantees: These cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations.
Partial credit guarantees: These are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its instrumentalities.
Policy-based guarantees: When partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD adjustment lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
Enclave guarantees: These are offered in exceptional cases for loans for foreign-exchange generating
projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for nonenclave guarantees. The annual commitment of enclave guarantees is limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30, 2004 no enclave guarantees were outstanding.
During FY 2003, one IBRD guarantee was called on certain bonds that had been issued by Argentina. In accordance with the terms of the guarantee, IBRD paid $250 million to the holders of the guarantee. IBRD and Argentina have agreed to a reimbursement arrangement for the amount paid out. This amount is included in Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet. Pursuant to the terms of the guarantee, the guarantee was not reinstated.
IBRD’s exposure at June 30, 2004 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 8. For
additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D.
Table 8: Guarantee Exposure
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD—through the World Bank Institute and its partners—provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J.
Investment Management: IBRD offers investment management services to several external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One objective of providing the services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These managed funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note J.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD’s liquid assets are held principally in highly-rated fixed income securities. These securities include obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions,
currency and interest rate swaps (including currency forward contracts), asset-backed (including mortgage-backed) securities, and futures and options contracts.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD’s financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintains a $500 million line of credit with an independent financial institution.11 This facility is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. For further details about this facility, see the Notes to Financial Statements— Note E.
Under IBRD’s liquidity management policy, aggregate liquid asset holdings are kept at or above a specified prudential minimum in order to safeguard against cash flow interruptions. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations for the fiscal year, plus one-half of net approved loan disbursements as projected for the fiscal year. The FY 2005 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $20 billion, an increase of $2 billion from that set for FY 2004. IBRD also holds liquid assets over the specified minimum to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
The primary objective for IBRD in the management of liquid assets is to protect the principal amount of these investments. In addition, IBRD seeks to achieve a reasonable return on the liquid asset portfolio using prudent asset and risk management techniques. The General Investment Authorization for IBRD approved by the Board of Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IBRD can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for
a. This line of credit is held jointly with the International Development Association (IDA), an affiliated organization.
investment; establishing risk parameters versus benchmarks such as an overall stop-loss limit and duration deviation; specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes; as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility on risk monitoring and compliance.
Liquid assets may be held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Investment of up to 20% of the stable portfolio may be contracted out to external managers. Separate investment guidelines which conform to IBRD's overall Investment Guidelines are provided to each external manager.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD’s day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD’s borrowing
program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities.
Figure 4 represents IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2004 and FY 2003, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY 2004, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio stood at $30,915 million, an increase of $4,492 million from FY 2003. Of this amount, $1,350 million ($1,338 million in FY 2003) in the stable portfolio was managed by external firms. IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars with net exposure to short-term interest rates. The debt funding these liquid assets also shares similar currency and duration profiles. This is a direct consequence of IBRD's exchange rate and interest rate risk management policies (see Section 6—Financial Risk Management), combined with appropriate investment benchmarks. In addition to monitoring gross investment returns compared to their benchmarks, IBRD also monitors overall investment earnings net of funding costs (see Section 8—Results of Operations).
The returns and average balances of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2004 compared to FY 2003 are presented in Table 9. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
The lower returns in FY 2004 are due primarily to the lower average interest rate environment in FY 2004 as compared to FY 2003, as shown in Figure 10.
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investment portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, IBRD enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Table 10 summarizes IBRD's significant contractual cash obligations, by remaining maturity, at June 30, 2004. Long-term debt includes direct medium- and long-term borrowings excluding swaps, but does not include any adjustment for unamortized premiums, discounts or effects of applying FAS 133 (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—Note E—Borrowings). Capital and operating lease expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate-related obligations and equipment. Other long-term liabilities include accrued liabilities for staff compensation and benefits. Capital and operating leases, contractual purchases and capital expenditures, and other long term obligations include amounts which will be shared with IDA, IFC and MIGA in accordance with individual cost sharing agreements (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—Note I—Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income.)
Excluded from the table are a number of obligations to be settled in cash. These obligations are presented in IBRD's balance sheet and include undisbursed loans; short-term borrowings; payable for currency and interest rate swaps; payable for investment securities purchased, and payable for transfers approved by the Board of Governors.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders’ equity, as reported in IBRD’s balance sheet at June 30, 2004, was $35,463 million compared with $37,918 million at June 30, 2003. The decrease from FY 2003 primarily reflects the decrease in retained earnings.
IBRD’s equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD’s equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 11 presents the composition of this measure at June 30, 2004 and 2003.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and an input to the assessment of capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management— Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
Reserve of $680 million that was approved on August 3, 2004, was included in this ratio at June 30, 2004 ($2,410 million—June 30, 2003). The increase in this ratio from 26.59% at June 30, 2003 to 29.35% at June 30, 2004 was due to the decrease in net loans outstanding and the overall increase in equity in FY
2004.	During FY 2004, IBRD increased the General Reserves in order to improve its risk-bearing capacity.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2004, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,811 million, of which $189,718 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million had been paid in and $178,235 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $8,934 million was available for lending and $2,549 million was not available for lending.The terms of payment of IBRD’s capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors are as follows:
As presented in Figure 5, IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio increased during FY 2004, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$2,628 million of IBRD’s capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,705 million of IBRD’s capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent of the member whose currency is involved. In addition, these national currencies may be used by IBRD following a decision by the Board of Executive Directors, to invest or lend in that currency, or swap the national currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents for lending, $5,750 million of this amount was being used in IBRD’s lending operations at June 30, 2004.
(iii)	$150 million of IBRD’s capital was converted to U.S. dollars from the currency of the subscribing members by providing U.S. dollar denominated nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing demand notes, encashable in the currency of the subscribing member. This amount may, under the terms of the note, be encashed for administrative expenses or, after all subscribed capital has been called, IBRD will have the right to encash the note to meet its obligations.
Callable Capital
(iv)	$151,775 million of IBRD’s capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(v)	$26,461 million of IBRD’s capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD’s Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes.
No call has ever been made on IBRD’s callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2004, $103,604 million (58.1%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount slightly exceeded IBRD’s outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30, 2004. Table 12 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
Table 12: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
The United States is IBRD’s largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S. Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements—Notes A and B.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors globally. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
New medium- and long-term funding excluding swaps by currency for FY 2004, as compared to FY
2003,	is shown in Figure 6.
Funding Operations
In FY 2004, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $12,535 million compared to $19,305 million in FY
2003.	Table 13 summarizes IBRD’s funding operations for FY 2004 and FY 2003.
are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD’s operations. Debt is allocated on a periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines. In both FY 2004 and FY 2003, IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, composed of cost-effective private placements, public issues placed with large institutional investors, and public issues targeted to retail investors.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or to meet other operational needs. In response to market conditions, during FY 2004, IBRD repurchased or called $3,996 million of its outstanding borrowings ($6,293 million during FY 2003).
Use of Derivatives
All new funding is initially swapped into floating-rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with loan funding requirements. Figures 7a and 7b illustrate the effect of swaps on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowings portfolio at June 30,
2004.	Interest rate and currency swaps are also used
Figure 7a: Effect of Swaps on Interest Rate Structures
for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowings portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements —Note E.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes a Risk Management Secretariat supporting the Management Committee in its oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
For financial risk management, there is a Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Finance Committee makes recommendations and, where appropriate to the topic, takes decisions in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Three subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Financial Instruments Subcommittee.
The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, setting investment guidelines, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The Financial Instruments Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implementational issues of new products offered to IBRD borrowers.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Country Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term. The Chief Credit Officer reports to the Vice President of Strategy, Finance, and Risk Management who is a member of the Operations Committee, which reviews IBRD's Country Assistance Strategies and selected planned adjustment loans.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which is independent from the business
units responsible for managing these risks. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IBRD's financial operations resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal control in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IBRD. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
The Board of Executive Directors assesses IBRD’s risk-bearing capacity based on a variety of metrics, including an income-based stress test and an equity-to-loans ratio, to measure its income generating capacity and capital adequacy.
The stress test provides a basis for evaluating whether IBRD has sufficient financial capacity to be able to (i) absorb the income loss due to a credit shock,a and
(ii)	generate sufficient income to support loan growth without causing the post-shock equity-to-loans ratio to fall below a minimum level over the next ten years. The credit shock event used in the stress test is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at an appropriate confidence level.
The risk that a significant portion of its loan portfolio may go into extended arrears is the most significant risk faced by IBRD, and almost all of IBRD's equity capital is held against this risk. Credit risk is measured in terms of both probable and unexpected losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and unexpected losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD’s financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks.
To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. However, the sensitivity of IBRD’s operating income to changes in market interest rates has been increasing as borrowers have chosen to borrow from IBRD primarily on floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based loans. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, the equity-to-loans ratio is also protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 5 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio on both the
a. Income loss arises from borrower in nonaccrual status no longer paying interest on their loans. In addition, an increase in the loan loss provision is typically warranted as a result of the nonaccrual event. This increase in the provision must be recognized as an expense, which further reduces net income in the year of the shock, and through that, impacts the equity-to-loans ratio.
current value and reported basis has been increasing over the last two years.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD’s Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the creditworthiness of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD’s overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through a single borrower exposure limit. According to an approach approved by the Executive Directors in 1997, the single borrower exposure limit is set at the lower of an equitable access limit and a concentration risk limit. The equitable access limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus, and the concentration risk limit is estimated by stress testing IBRD’s income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital (taking into account not only current exposure - loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees - but also projected exposure over the ensuing three year period). The single borrower exposure limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider IBRD’s reserves adequacy and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2005, the single borrower exposure limit is $13.5 billion, unchanged from FY 2004, which is the lower of the concentration risk limit ($13.5 billion) and the equitable access limit ($21.4 billion). As depicted in Figure 8, IBRD’s largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $10.9 billion at June 30, 2004.
single borrower exposure limit by entering into an arrangement that would prevent its net exposure from exceeding the limit. Any such arrangement would need to be approved in advance by IBRD’s Executive Directors. During FY 2003, IBRD entered into the first such arrangement with one borrower, China. As of June 30, 2004, China had not exceeded the single borrower exposure limit and therefore, activation of the arrangement was not required.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges due to IBRD, IBRD has an option to suspend disbursements immediately on all loans. IBRD's current policy however, is to exercise this option through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 4. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IDA credits may become overdue. For borrowers with IBRD loans who become overdue in their debt service payments on IDA credits, IBRD also applies the treatment described in Box 4.
- <
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Under certain circumstances, IBRD would be able to continue to lend to a borrower that was reaching the
Box 4: Treatment of Overdue Payments
See Notes to Financial Statements—Note D for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30, 2004.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
IBRD's provision for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the provision.
The accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees decreased by $549 million (this comprises a release of provision for losses on loan and guarantees of $665 million and positive translation adjustments of $116 million) during FY 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings and negative net disbursements on loans, including $4,614 million of prepayments, which reduced loans outstanding.
Treatment of Protracted Arrears
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. This policy is conditional on members agreeing to implement certain requirements including an acceptable structural adjustment program, adopting a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors, and continuing to service their obligations to IBRD and other multilateral creditors on time.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. However, during FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. These criteria limited eligibility for such treatment to a
country: that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; that because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and for which a rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
The accumulated arrears on loans to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, were cleared through new consolidation loans extended by IBRD in FY 1996 and FY 2002, respectively. The reschedulings were structured to maintain the values of payments to IBRD in accordance with the terms of the original loan agreements. These reschedulings did not change IBRD’s net exposure to these borrowers. These new loans included the loan principal outstanding assumed, respectively, by BiH and SAM as part of their conditions for succession to membership of the former SFRY, as well as all unpaid interest and charges related to the former SFRY’s loans. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million for BiH and $799 million for SAM. The offset to these amounts was initially classified as deferred loan income, which was presented along with the accumulated provision for loan losses as a determinant of net loans outstanding on the balance sheet.
During FY 2003, IBRD determined that the offset to loans outstanding related to BiH and SAM, that was initially classified as Deferred Loan Income, should be reclassified to Accumulated Provision for Loan Losses to better reflect the nature of these amounts. Following the reclassification, the required provisions for these countries were reassessed, which resulted in a positive effect on income of $591 million in FY 2003. See the Notes to Financial Statements—Note D for additional information.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign
governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
Derivative and foreign exchange transactions involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD’s funding, investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the
most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the “net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD’s exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements—Note G.
Table 14 provides details of IBRD’s estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps (excluding those with borrowing member countries), net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The increase in the proportion of AA rated investments, compared to the prior year, is mainly due to the increase in deposits with commercial banks. After the effects of netting arrangements, the credit exposure from swaps decreased from $6,599 million at June 30, 2003 to $5,598 million at June 30,
2004.	The swap credit exposure of $5,598 million is offset by collateral of $4,103 million, which results in a total net swap exposure of $1,495 million.
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily changes in interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD’s exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD’s portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each loan product and liquid asset at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product and liquid asset in accordance with the
Table 15: Financial Instrument Portfolios
In millions of U.S. dollars
particular requirements for that product or liquid asset and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the asset/liability management process.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Table 15 details the current value information of each loan product, the liquid asset portfolio, and the debt allocated to fund these assets.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD’s equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio shifts from pool loans to LIBOR based loans, the sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates will increase.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD’s existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for approximately 68% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (69% at the end of FY 2003). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose some residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD’s new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool after FY 2009. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans and this debt overhang presents a risk of loss to IBRD because the debt carries fixed interest rates.
Over-funding reaches a maximum of approximately $5.8 billion in FY 2015. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the interest rate characteristics of the over-funded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond 2009 through the use of forward-starting swaps. IBRD began executing these forward-starting swaps in FY 2000 and the cost to
date has been approximately $242 million. The fair value of the debt overhang remaining to be hedged is approximately $283 million as of June 30, 2004. The cost of the overhang will vary with interest rates until the program of hedging swaps is completed at the end of FY 2005.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 32% of the existing loan portfolio (31% at the end of FY 2003), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of noncost pass-though products will grow.
The interest rate risk on IBRD’s liquid portfolio, which includes the risk that the value of assets in the liquid portfolio will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates, is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD’s assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has executed some overlay interest rate swaps to reduce this mismatch risk.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD’s policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD’s ability to better absorb unexpected losses from arrears regardless of the market environment.
Figure 9 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2004 and FY 2003.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD’s activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, please refer to Section 4 —Liquidity Management.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal control that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. Since 1996, IBRD has used a COSOa-based integrated internal control framework.
During FY 2004, IBRD implemented an enhanced framework for operational risk management for its finance activities. This framework which was implemented in conjunction with operational units involves the following core steps:
•	Key operational risks and mitigating controls are identified and documented based on a business process review of key activities within finance. This review is undertaken using a combination of tools including business process maps and tailored risk and control categories which are applied consistently across finance.
•	Operational risks are quantified based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters.
•	The design and operating effectiveness of controls are evaluated using self assessment workshops, independent quality assurance reviews and annual internal representation letters from business unit managers.
•	Action plans are developed for issues identified and followed up on a periodic basis.
a. In 1992, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
•	Key risks and control weaknesses are evaluated on an annual basis by an internal panel. The panel evaluates and categorizes these to determine if they pose a threat to management's ability to make a positive assertion on the adequacy of internal controls surrounding IBRD’s external financial reporting.
•	The results of the work undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are reported to the Audit Committee through an annual report.
•	Operational risk data is captured in a database to facilitate reporting and sharing of information with business unit managers and senior management.
•	On a periodic basis, operational risks and controls are assessed and reviewed to monitor significant changes.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report, that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IBRD’s internal control over external financial reporting. As of June 30, 2004 no such significant changes occurred.
Annually IBRD’s management has made an assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year since 1997, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO. Since FY 1997, IBRD’s external auditors have provided an attestation report that management’s assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are those processes which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure by IBRD. Management has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of such controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the President and the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2004.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects probable losses in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default probability using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD’s total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD’s provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements—Notes A and D.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, IBRD carries its investments and derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, on a fair value basis. These derivatives include certain features in debt instruments that, for accounting purposes, are separately valued and accounted for as either assets or liabilities. When possible, fair value is determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair value is based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the balance sheet.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters; ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
In FY 2004, operating income declined to $1,696 million as releases of provisions contributed less than in FY 2003 and net interest income narrowed. Reported income was negative, a net loss of $2,404 million in FY 2004. This reflects IBRD’s application of FAS 133 and the sharp increase in reference market rates. For more details please refer to FAS 133 Adjustments.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2004, short-term market interest rates increased, compared with a decline throughout FY
2003.	The increase in rates occurred predominantly in the fourth quarter of FY 2004. However, the average markets rates for FY 2004 were lower than the average rates in FY 2003. Figure 10 illustrates these movements.
Operating Income
IBRD’s operating income can be seen as broadly comprising a spread on earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for loan losses and administrative expenses. Table 16 shows a breakdown of IBRD’s net income.
FY 2004 versus FY 2003
FY 2004 operating income was $1,696 million, $1,325 million lower than for FY 2003. The main reasons for the decrease in operating income were reductions in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees and in loan interest income, net of funding costs.
During FY 2004, provisioning requirements were reduced by $665 million due to a net improvement in borrowers’ risk ratings, and negative net disbursements, including $4,614 million of loan prepayments.
Table 16: Net Income
In millions of U.S. dollars
During FY 2003 the overall reduction in provision for losses on loans and guarantees amounted to $1,300 million, resulting from the following factors. The provisioning requirements were reduced by $709 million due primarily to a net improvement in borrowers' risk ratings, and to a lesser extent due to changes in the size and distribution of the portfolio including negative net disbursements (of which prepayments were $6,972 million). In addition, the provisioning requirements for BiH and SAM were reassessed in FY 2003, resulting in an additional $591 million being taken into income (see Section 6— Financial Risk Management).
FY 2003 versus FY 2002
FY 2003 operating income was $3,021 million, $1,097 million higher than in FY 2002. The majority of this increase was due to a reduction in the provision for loan loss expense of $1,300 million, as discussed above.
Net Interest Income FY 2004 versus FY 2003
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $560 million largely due to lower returns on the equity funded component of loans, as a result of both the lower lending rates of the cost pass-through loan products and the effect of lower market interest rates. Lower average loan balances, particularly in higher-yielding loan products, as well as lower margins from cost pass-through products, also contributed to the decline in net interest income. The margins for cost pass-through products in FY 2003 were high, in part reflecting the effect of favorable interest rate repricing lags in a falling interest rate environment as well as significant prepayment premium income (see also FY 2003 versus FY 2002).
FY 2003 versus FY 2002
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, decreased by $143 million due primarily to lower returns on the equity funded component of loans, and lower average loan balances, offset partially by the interest rate repricing lag inherent in the cost pass-through loans in a falling interest rate environment. Interest income was also affected by an increase in prepayment premiums.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 17.
FY 2004 versus FY 2003
Net noninterest expense increased by $42 million primarily due to a $50 million increase in other administrative expenses and a $31 million increase in staff costs and operational travel. This was offset by a $33 million increase in service fee revenues and other net income.
FY 2003 versus FY 2002
Net noninterest expense increased by $62 million primarily due to a $134 million increase in pension and other postretirement benefit costs. This was offset by a $55 million decrease in other administrative expenses and a $23 million increase in service fee revenues. The increase in pension and other postretirement benefits costs was primarily due
Table 17: Net Noninterest Expense
In millions of U.S. dollars
to changes in the underlying actuarial assumptions and a decrease in the value of the pension assets during FY 2002.
FAS 133 Adjustments
As discussed earlier, IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, to market. IBRD generally uses derivatives to modify fixed-rate U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar borrowings to variable-rate U.S. dollar borrowings. When IBRD borrows in currencies that are not needed for lending, to take advantage of the arbitrage opportunities which may exist, it immediately swaps the borrowings into the needed currencies.
During FY 2004, the effects of applying FAS 133 were negative $4,100 million compared to positive $2,323 million for FY 2003. This negative impact in the effects of applying FAS 133 was due primarily to a significant rise in the interest rates for certain currencies in FY 2004 as compared to FY 2003. This increase in interest rates caused a significant decrease in the value of the liability swaps. These swaps are financially equivalent to fixed-rate assets. While economically this decrease in the value of liability swaps has been offset by a corresponding decrease in the value of the fixed-rate borrowings, IBRD’s application of FAS 133 requires that only derivative instruments be marked to market.
For management reporting purposes, IBRD has prepared the Current Value financial statements in Table 2. IBRD believes that these statements make fully evident the risk management strategy that IBRD employs. During FY 2004, the effects of the current value adjustments were negative $513 million as compared to positive $394 million for FY 2003. This movement can be explained by the upward shift in IBRD’s U.S. dollar funding curve in FY 2004 as compared to FY 2003 (see Figure 11 for U.S. dollars).
Figure 11: IBRD's U.S. Dollar Funding Curve
9.	GOVERNANCE General Governance Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD's Board of Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
•	Committee on Development Effectiveness
•	Audit Committee
•	Budget Committee
•	Personnel Committee
•	Ethics Committee
•	Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve
the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries. Other relevant selection criteria include seniority, continuity and relevant experience. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IBRD's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for reviewing the performance and recommending to the Board the appointment, of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an
ongoing basis and revised its terms of reference in FY
2004.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
•	The minutes of its meetings.
•	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
•	"Statement(s) of the Chairman" and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
•	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Committee also reviews with the external auditor the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
Code of Ethics
IBRD strives to foster and maintain a positive work environment that supports the ethical behavior of its
staff. To facilitate this effort, IBRD has in place a Code of Professional Ethics-Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff (including managers, consultants, and temporary employees) worldwide.
This Code is available in nine languages on IBRD’s website, www.worldbank.org. Staff relations, conflicts of interest, and operational issues, including the accuracy of books and records, are key elements of the Code.
In addition to the Code, an essential element of appropriate conduct is compliance with the obligations embodied in the Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules, and Administrative Rules, the violation of which may result in disciplinary actions. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with IBRD's ethical goals. In support of its efforts on ethics, IBRD offers a variety of methods for informing staff of these resources. Many of these efforts are headed by the following groups:
•	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct provides leadership, management and oversight for IBRD's ethics infrastructure including the Ethics HelpLine, a consolidated conflicts of interest disclosure/resolution system, financial disclosure, ongoing training to both internal and external audiences, and communication resources.
•	The Department of Institutional Integrity is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects worldwide. The Department also investigates allegations of misconduct by IBRD staff, and trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects.
The Department reports directly to the President and is composed of professionals from a range of disciplines including financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and IBRD staff with operational experience.
IBRD has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received regarding accounting, internal control and auditing matters.
IBRD offers both the Ethics HelpLine, as well as a Fraud and Corruption hotline run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free hotline in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. In addition there are other methods by which the Department of Institutional Integrity may receive allegations, including directly by email, anonymously, or through confidential submission through its website, as well as the postal service and telephone.
Auditor Independence
In February 2003, the Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
•	Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
•	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
•	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
In FY 2004, IBRD’s external auditor, Deloitte and Touche, began a new five-year term and will have served 11 years as auditor upon completion of that term, pursuant to a one-time grandfathered exemption from the above-referenced ten-year limit. Even within a five-year term the service of the external auditors is subject to recommendation by the Audit Committee for annual reappointment and
approval of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards and International Standards on Auditing. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
•	Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
•	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
•	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR CURRENT VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD’s Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet at June 30, 2003 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18 below. Similarly, IBRD’s Condensed Current Value Comprehensive Statement of Income for the year ended June 30, 2003 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Currency Swaps (including Currency Forward Contracts):
Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with applying the provisions of FAS 133) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees and deferred loan income.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date.
FAS 133: FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 (Revised), “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offered rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional pay-
ments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:
Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option that gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements and all other information presented in the accompanying Management’s Discussion and Analysis. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report accompanies the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2004. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD
maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards, as of June 30, 2004. The independent accounting firm that audited the financial statements has issued an attestation report on Management’s assessment of IBRD’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IBRD has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IBRD. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IBRD’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IBRD in addition to reviewing IBRD’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Governors
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying Management’s Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented- in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2004, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of inherent limitations in any internal control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, Also, projections of any evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with both accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and International Financial Reporting Standards as of June 30, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
August 3, 2004
Member of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). On August 3, 2004, the Board of Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these
estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in Article II, Section 2(a) of
the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR (1974 SDR).
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of such restricted currencies (see Note B). Maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For amounts on loan, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff
Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income or expense for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve is reduced when pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133a from prior years. At June 30, 2004, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for prior fiscal years, and the unrealized gains or losses on certain derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, for prior fiscal years.
Unallocated Net Income consists of earnings in the current fiscal year. Upon recommendation by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors, consisting of one Governor appointed by each member, periodically approves transfers out of unallocated Net Income and Surplus to various entities for development purposes consistent with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement.
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fee amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the income statement.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt
a. For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, along with its amendments, as well as the derivative accounting requirements of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 (Revised), “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. In exceptional cases, however, such as when implementation of a financed project has been delayed, the loan amortization schedule may be modified to avoid substantial repayments prior to project completion.
In addition, during fiscal years 1996 and 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SAM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). One component of the financial assistance packages for BiH and SAM was a plan for the clearance of arrears under all loans to the former SFRY for which they undertook responsibility. Under the arrears clearance plans, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY which were assumed by BiH and SAM were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD.
IBRD’s treatment of BiH and SAM was based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in fiscal year 1996. These criteria limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan.
IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid
interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Guarantees: IBRD generally provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD adjustment lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IBRD on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued or modified after December 31,
2002,	in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others”, IBRD will record the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the financial statements. IBRD has not issued or modified any guarantees after December 31, 2002. For guarantees issued prior to January 1, 2003, fee income received from guarantees is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit. In addition, IBRD records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. The provision for losses on guarantees as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee
income are included in Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to the related loan's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees on a borrower-by-borrower basis for both the nonaccrual and accrual portfolios at the balance sheet date. The appropriate level of provisions for each borrower is estimated as the sum product of its expected default frequency (or probability of default to IBRD), its loans outstanding (plus the present value of guarantees), and the assumed severity of loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' ratings is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors. IBRD periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
Cash and Liquid Investments: IBRD considers unrestricted cash, as well as financial instruments held in the investment portfolio, as elements of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value, using trade-date accounting. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to take advantage of profitable trading opportunities and as a proxy for cash
securities. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IBRD under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IBRD's balance sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IBRD's balance sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital:
Payments on these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD’s name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the balance sheet.
Premises and Equipment: Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. IBRD computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the owned assets, which range between two and fifty years. For leasehold improvements, depreciation and amortization is computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life.
Borrowings: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues shortterm and medium- and long-term debt instruments denominated in various currencies with both fixed
and adjustable interest rates. Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at their par value (face value), adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts, and include adjustments for embedded derivatives and fair value hedges that existed at June 30, 2000, as required by FAS 133. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the related indebtedness is outstanding. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities. In the borrowing portfolio, derivatives are used to take advantage of cost saving opportunities in non-target currencies in various capital markets. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the income statement.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of FAS 133. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments, loans and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. In applying FAS 133 for the purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not make fully evident the risk management strategies that IBRD employs.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD’s financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note O. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD’s financial instruments
are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, and option volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accounting and Reporting Developments: In April
2003	and December 2003, FASB issued FAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", and FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", respectively. These standards did not have a material impact on IBRD's financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004.
In December 2003, FASB issued FAS No. 132 (Revised 2003), “Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Post Retirement Benefits”. This statement revises employers’ disclosures about pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. Adoption of this standard has resulted in additional disclosures in the notes to IBRD’s financial statements.
In December 2003, as part of its improvements to International Accounting Standards (IAS) project, IASB issued fifteen revised International Accounting Standards to eliminate redundancies and conflicts between existing standards. The revised standards are to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2005. IBRD is currently examining what impact these standards may have on IBRD's financial statements.
NOTE B—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2004, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares (1,581,724 shares—June 30, 2003), of which 1,572,661 shares had been subscribed (1,571,412 shares—June 30, 2003). Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,483 million ($11,478 million—June 30, 2003) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,235 million ($178,089 million—June 30, 2003) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD
in its lending operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: As of June 30, 2004, IBRD had $73 million ($331 million—June 30, 2003) of net MOV amounts classified as a component of equity.
Of this amount, IBRD had a net MOV payable of $119 million (net MOV receivable of $155 million—June 30, 2003) relating to restricted currencies out on loan which become payable to IBRD on the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD. The remaining amount is a net MOV receivable of $192 million ($176 million—June 30, 2003), representing receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned.
NOTE C—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, currency swaps (including currency forward contracts), interest rate swaps and options.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest
in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity with a minimum credit rating of AA. For asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. These are settled on a daily basis.
For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount. IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2004, IBRD had $nil million ($428 million—June 30, 2003) of short sales included in Payable for Investment Securities Purchased on the balance sheet.
As of June 30, 2004, IBRD had received $851 million ($212 million—June 30, 2003) of securities under resale agreements. None of these securities had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements as of June 30, 2004 or June 30, 2003.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, IBRD had included $54 million of unrealized gains in income (unrealized losses of $21 million—June 30, 2003 and $48 million—June 30, 2002).
Guarantees of $1,218 million were outstanding at June 30, 2004 ($1,254 million—June 30, 2003). This amount represents the maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments that IBRD could be required to make under these guarantees, and are not included in the balance sheet. Most of these guarantees have maturities ranging between 10 and 15 years, and expire in decreasing amounts through 2012.
At June 30, 2004, liabilities related to IBRD's obligations under guarantees of $23 million ($33 million—June 30, 2003), have been included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet. These include the accumulated provision for guarantee losses of $15 million ($24 million—June 30, 2003).
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, no guarantees provided by IBRD were called. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, IBRD’s guarantee of certain bonds that had been issued by Argentina was called and, in accordance with the terms of the guarantee, IBRD made a payment of $250 million to the holders of such guarantee. Pursuant to the terms of the reimbursement agreement between IBRD and Argentina, IBRD directed Argentina to reimburse IBRD for the entire $250 million in four equal semiannual installments, commencing October 15, 2005, and to repay interest on the outstanding amount at
LIBOR plus 400 basis points. The outstanding amount of $250 million is included in Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet at June 30, 2003.
Derivatives for Borrowers
In November 2003, the first currency swap transaction was executed between IBRD and one of its borrowers, under a master derivatives agreement. No other transactions of this nature have been executed in this fiscal year. The net interest income associated with this swap is included in Loan Interest income on the income statement. As of June 30, 2004, the receivable and payable legs of this swap had carrying values of $90 million and $93 million, respectively. This swap matures in 2017.
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2004, no loans payable to IBRD, other than those referred to in the following table, were overdue by more than three months. Subsequent to June 30,
2004,	principal installments of $7 million and charges of $1 million payable to IBRD, became overdue by three months, on July 16, 2004. The aggregate principal outstanding to this borrower at July 16, 2004 was $438 million. The following tables provide a summary of selected financial information related to loans in nonaccrual status as of June 30:
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, there were no loans placed into nonaccrual status or restored to accrual status.
In July 2002, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo cleared all of their overdue payments with IBRD, and all IBRD loans to, or guaranteed by, these two countries were restored to accrual status. As a result, income from loans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 increased by $57 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these loans not been in nonaccrual status. The provision for loan losses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003 was not affected by these events, since these events occurred in the beginning of July 2002 and were considered in the determination of the adequacy of the provision for loan losses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest on its loans. However, IBRD suffers losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges according to the related loan’s contractual terms and the actual cash flows. Certain borrowers have found it difficult to make timely payments for protracted periods, resulting in their loans being placed in nonaccrual status. Several borrowers have
emerged from nonaccrual status after a period of time by bringing up-to-date all principal payments and all overdue service payments, including interest and other charges. To recognize the probable losses inherent in its loan and guarantee portfolio, IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
During June 1996 and January 2002, the accumulated arrears on loans to the former SFRY, for which BiH and SAM undertook responsibility, were cleared through the issuance of new loans extended by IBRD to the two countries. The reschedulings were structured to maintain the values of payments to IBRD in accordance with the terms of the original loan agreements. These reschedulings did not change IBRD’s net exposure to these borrowers. These loans included unpaid interest and charges related to SFRY's loans. This resulted in an increase in loans outstanding of $168 million for BiH and $799 million for SAM. The offset to these amounts was initially classified as deferred loan income, which is presented along with the accumulated provision for loan losses as a determinant of net loans outstanding on the balance sheet. During fiscal year 2003, IBRD determined that these reductions should be reclassified as accumulated provision for loan losses to better reflect the nature of these amounts.
IBRD has endorsed a multilateral initiative for addressing the debt problems of a group of countries, identified as heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC), to ensure that the reform efforts of these countries will not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. Under this initiative, creditors are to provide debt relief for those countries that demonstrated good policy performance over an extended period to bring their debt burdens to sustainable levels. IBRD has not entered into any commitments to provide debt relief under this initiative. However, IDA is expected under the HIPC debt initiative, to extend new credits to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD. In determining the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, IBRD has taken the situation of these countries into consideration.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under IDA’s Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA are allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions, in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental development credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
Valuation Methods and Assumptions Due from Banks
The carrying amount of unrestricted and restricted currencies is considered a reasonable estimate of the fair value of these positions.
Investments
IBRD’s investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information. (See Note A).
Net Loans Outstanding
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its
loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans. The current value of loans outstanding incorporates management’s best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value of loans is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the market yield curves applicable to IBRD funding plus IBRD’s relevant basis point lending spread adjusted for waivers.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from borrowers. This is reflected in the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Swaps Receivable and Swaps Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value of swaps is based on market prices, where such prices are available. Where no quoted market price is available, the fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date. (See Note A).
Borrowings
The fair value of borrowings is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques using appropriate market yield curves.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities
These amounts are generally short-term in nature. Therefore, the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The difference between the carrying value and fair value of other assets is due to the carrying value of debt issuance costs being included in other assets while the fair value of these costs is included as part of the fair value of borrowings.
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published special purpose financial statements and all other information presented in this annual report. The special purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’S special purpose financial statements and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The special purpose financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report accompanies the audited special purpose financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent (imitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2004. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles described in Note
A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements, as of June 30, 2004. The independent accounting firm that audited the special purpose financial statements has issued an attestation report on Management’s assessment of IDA’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IDA has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing afid monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Governors International Development Association
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying Management’s Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Development Association maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2004, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO report). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of inherent limitations in any internal control, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that International Development Association maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the International Development Association’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statements of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power, and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2004, and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2004. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the special purpose financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the special purpose financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall special purpose financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article Vf, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Financial Reporting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the Internationa! Development Association as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2004 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic special purpose financial statement taken as a whole. The Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative listed in the table of contents is presented for the purpose of additional analysis. This additional information is the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic special purpose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association’s Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
<f Tcua't* P
August 3, 2004
Member of
Deloitte Touche Totimatsu
Notes to Special Purpose Financial Statements
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization that was established on September 24, 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDA’s membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Financial Reporting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below. On August 3, 2004, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and allowances for the HIPC Debt Initiative.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
IDA follows a special basis of accounting for member subscriptions and contributions and for development credits as described under the discussion on significant accounting policies below.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars solely for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits and development grants denominated in SDRs are charged or credited to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded in full as Subscriptions and Contributions Committed upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment.
A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives Instruments of Commitments from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables come due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution is recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discounts on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions. Restricted notes at June 30, 2004 were $44 million ($35 million—June 30, 2003).
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, with effect from that date and until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1,
1986,	subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
All development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be
below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2004 the rate for undisbursed credits has been set at 0.50 percent (fiscal year ended June 30, 2003—0 percent). Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. Therefore, there is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than allowances for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, has been established. Should losses occur, they would be included in the Statement of Income.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June
1987,	the Executive Directors decided to value those
development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
The Twelfth Replenishment Resolution authorized the use of Twelfth Replenishment donor funds to finance grants in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative, or grant assistance to post-conflict countries under a framework approved by the Executive Directors on July 31, 2001.
IDA is authorized to provide a significant portion of financing under the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants. The annual net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997 through 2003 also authorized the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Development grants are charged to income when the development grant agreement is signed by the recipient.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003, the commitment charge rate on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants was 0 percent.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans or securities issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IDA, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued prior to January 1, 2003, the fee income received is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit. The unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income is included in Other Resources, net on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. For guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others”, IDA will record the fair value of the obligation to stand ready in the financial statements. IDA has not issued or modified any guarantees after December 31, 2002.
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched in 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As a part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996. It is administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including the IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Original Framework of the Initiative, eligible countries received relief on IBRD and IDA debt through three mechanisms: (i) partial financing of lending operations with development grants; (ii) purchase and cancellation of IDA credits by the IBRD/ IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund subject to availability of funds; and (iii) the provision of debt service on selected IDA credits, in certain cases, by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
Under the Enhanced Framework of the Initiative, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms also include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon approval of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative by the Executive Directors of IDA, the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision.
The Allowance for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), a receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created (to the extent that funds are available) and income is recognized. The receivable is limited to the nominal value equivalent of one-third of the net present value of the principal component of the total debt relief committed to the specific country. The receivable is also the maximum debt relief that can be provided before the country reaches its completion point as defined by IDA’s Executive Directors, and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA.
An additional receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is created and income is recognized when the country reaches its completion point and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative to the satisfaction of IDA. This additional receivable represents the remaining principal component of the total debt relief committed that was not recognized at the decision point.
Cash and Liquid Investments IDA considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value, using trade date accounting. The first-in-first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in Income from investments.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, requires additional collateral.
The securities transferred to IDA under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IDA's
Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Accounting and reporting developments
In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities". This interpretation did not have a material impact on IDA's financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004.
In December 2003, as part of its improvements to International Accounting Standards (IAS) project, the International Accounting Standards Board issued fifteen revised International Accounting Standards to eliminate redundancies and conflicts between existing standards. The revised standards are to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2005. IDA is currently examining what impact these standards may have on IDA's financial statements.
NOTE B—INVESTMENTS
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed separately. IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal. IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including currency forward contracts.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on regulated United States and international exchanges. IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to maturity. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments. Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of
countries require a minimum credit rating of AA if denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required. Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity require a minimum credit rating of AA.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option. IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller’s portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered. As of June 30,
2004,	IDA had $1,010 million ($716 million—June 30, 2003) of short sales included in Net payable on investment securities transactions in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
For the purpose of risk management, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk in excess of the amount reflected in the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
In addition, IDA has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives agreement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure
may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 (prior to taking into account any master derivatives agreements or collateral arrangements that have been made) are given below:
*Less than $0.5 million.
Exchange traded instruments are normally subject to daily margin requirements and are deemed to have no material credit risk. All outstanding futures and options contracts at the end of June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 were interest rate contracts.
112 The World Bank Annual Report 2004
As of June 30, 2004, IDA had received $954 million ($1,533 million—June 30, 2003) of securities under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $130 million ($179 million—June 30, 2003) has been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities have been included in the assets of IDA.
At June 30, 2004, IDA maintained a line of credit facility with an independent financial institution. This facility was created for the benefit of both IBRD and IDA. The available line of credit to each institution is $500 million, but usage from both institutions cannot exceed this amount in aggregate. The line of credit facility is being used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. At June 30, 2004, IDA had not drawn down under this facility ($1 million—June 30, 2003).
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2004, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $4,589 million ($5,887 million— June 30, 2003) of which $123 million ($77 million— June 30, 2003) was due and $4,466 million ($5,810 million—June 30, 2003) was not yet due.
Subscriptions and contributions due at June 30, 2004
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $7,657 million through June 30, 2004 ($7,357 million—June 30, 2003). The aggregate transfers of $7,738 million reported in the above table differs from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements on the value of transfers that were approved in SDR.
Of the aggregate transfers, $300 million was approved by the IBRD Board of Governors in September 2003.
At June 30, 2004, $1,584 million was receivable from IBRD ($1,293 million—June 30, 2003). Of this amount, $385 million will be paid after all other resources available to IDA for the purpose of the Eleventh Replenishment have been drawn down, and $954 million of the receivable amount will be paid in fiscal year 2005 at the end of the defined encashment schedule for donor contributions to IDA’s Twelfth Replenishment. The remaining $245 million will be paid in accordance with the donor encashment schedule for IDA’s Thirteenth Replenishment.
On September 24, 2003, in accordance with the administration agreement for the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Executive Directors of IDA approved the termination of the trust fund and the transfer of its assets to IDA. These assets included the right to receive repayments of credits totaling $124 million and $11 million in cash balances. At June 30,
2004,	these assets in the form of development credits and cash had been transferred to IDA.
Fifth Dimension Program
Under the Fifth Dimension program established in September 1988, a portion of principal repayments to IDA is allocated on an annual basis to provide supplementary IDA development credits to IDA-eligible countries that are no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but have outstanding IBRD loans approved prior to September 1988 and have in place an IDA-supported structural adjustment program. Such supplementary IDA development credits are allocated to countries that meet specified conditions in proportion to each country’s interest payments due that year on its pre-September 1988 IBRD loans. To be eligible for such IDA supplemental credits, a member country must meet IDA’s eligibility criteria for lending, must be ineligible for IBRD lending and must not have had an IBRD loan approved within the last twelve months. To receive a supplemental development credit from the program, a member country cannot be more than 60 days overdue on its debt-service payments to IBRD or IDA.
A summary of cumulative IDA credits committed and disbursed under this program from inception, at June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2003 is given below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
2004	2003
Guarantees
Guarantees of $129 million at June 30, 2004 ($119 million—June 30, 2003) were not included in IDA’s Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. These outstanding amounts represent the maximum potential undiscounted future payments that IDA could be required to make under these guarantees.
The three existing guarantees issued by IDA expire in 2011, 2015 and 2019.
Segment Reporting
Based on an evaluation of its operations, management has determined that IDA has only one reportable segment since IDA does not manage its operations by allocating its resources based on the contribution to net income from individual borrowers. In addition, the risk and return profiles are sufficiently similar among its borrowers so that IDA does not differentiate in terms of the nature of products or services provided, the preparation process, or the method of providing services to its borrowers.
For the year ended June 30, 2004, development credits to one country generated in excess of ten percent of total income from credits, amounting to $179 million.
NOTE F—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: IDA carries its investments at the fair value of the portfolio. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Development Credits: IDA’s development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA's terms. Discounting the future cash flows from IDA's development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government securities having similar maturity to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Under the HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the six
months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element.
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U.S. dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits before being aggregated to provide the composite results.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable.
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $115,743 million reflected on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources at June 30, 2004 ($106,877 million—June 30, 2003), as shown in the following table.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another
alternative for the grant element. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 65 percent as of June 30, 2004 (66 percent—June 30, 2003).
NOTE G—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Administrative expenses represent IDA’s share of such expenses jointly incurred by IBRD and IDA.
The allocation of expenses is based upon an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with IBRD, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies
and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses which include the cofinancing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs and research and training programs. These funds are placed in trust with IDA and/or IBRD, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not comingled with IDA and/or IBRD funds, nor are they included in the development resources of IDA.
The responsibilities of IDA under these arrangements vary and range from services normally provided under its own lending projects to full project implementation including procurement of goods and services. IDA receives fees for administering trust funds as a reduction of the administrative expenses shared with IBRD. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, IDA received $18 million ($17 million— June 30, 2003, $10 million—June 30, 2002) as fees for administering trust funds.
NOTE I—IMPACT FROM HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Debt Service Relief
As of June 30, 2004, total debt service relief of $1,093 million has been provided by IDA consisting of $913 million in principal repayments and $180 million in service charges. These amounts have been reimbursed by the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund.
HIPC Grants
As of June 30, 2004, HIPC grants of $101 million have been disbursed. The HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund has reimbursed $19 million of the disbursed grants.
Receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund
A summary of changes to the receivable from the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund is presented below:
Additional HIPC Debt Relief
At June 30, 2004, the Executive Directors of IDA had approved debt relief on outstanding IDA development credit principal of about $470 million to one HIPC country subject to obtaining satisfactory assurances of full participation in the debt relief initiative from the country's other creditors. This additional contingent relief has not been charged against income or included in IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
A summary of the debt relief provided under the HIPC Debt Initiative is included in the Supplementary Information appended to these financial statements.
NOTE J—DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
A summary of changes to the amounts payable for development grants is presented below:
At June 30, 2004, $270 million ($252 million - June 30, 2003) of development grants had been approved by IDA's Executive Directors but had not been charged to expense pending the signing of agreements with recipients.
NOTE K—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of
development resources that are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income comprises income or loss after HIPC Debt Initiative and currency translation adjustments on development credits and development grants. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on development credits and development grants. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
Supplementary Information on the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
The summary table below shows debt relief for countries that have reached their decision or completion points as of June 30, 2004, and estimated amounts to be provided to other eligible countries (with the exception of those countries for which cost estimates are not currently available), under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. In addition to the total debt relief of $13,923 million, IDA is expected to extend new credits estimated at $232 million to certain IDA-eligible countries no longer able to borrow on IBRD terms, but with outstanding IBRD debt. These credits will be funded by IDA resources other than transfers from IBRD.
The debt relief shown under the HIPC Trust Fund in the table below relates only to the IBRD/IDA component, and includes amounts approved up to June 30, 2004 by the Executive Directors of IDA.
As of June 30, 2004, the 27 countries that have reached their decision or completion points are Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Democratic Republic Congo, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia.