ABOUT THE WORLD BANK
The World Bank comprises two institutions: the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). These institutions—along with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)-make up the World Bank Group. Each institution specializes in a different aspect of development, but they all have the same goal: a world free of poverty.
The World Bank exchanges ideas with countries on which policies are best suited to achieving their development goals and provides them with technical and financial assistance. IBRD’s clients are middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries, while IDA focuses exclusively on the poorest countries.
The World Bank operates like a cooperative, with developing and developed country members functioning as share-
holders. Their representatives, the Executive Directors, set Bank policies and oversee its operations.
IBRD has 185 member countries. Since its inception in 1944, it has made loans amounting to $433 billion. IDA has 166 member countries. Since its inception in 1960, it has made commitments amounting to $181 billion.
World Bank programs give high priority to sustainable human and social development and to strengthened economic management, with an emphasis on inclusion, governance, and institution building. Grants and loans obtained from cofinanciers and partnerships often complement government funds and World Bank lending to make up the total package of assistance to a country.
For additional information please see www.worldbank.org, as well as the Guide to the World Bank at www.worldbank .org/reference.
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD BANK AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Throughout this Report you will see what the work of the World Bank Group means for countries and people striving to overcome poverty in all regions, especially in Africa. The World Bank Group is working with partners on more than 620 projects: to give both boys and girls a chance to learn; offer health services to those in need of care; promote the development of the private sector so as to put local savings to work creating jobs and propertyforthe poor; and build infrastructure and secure, sustainable energy sources that are prerequisites for growth. We also strive to strengthen governance, institutions, and the rule of law so people have afairopportunityto forgeafuturefortheirfamiliesand their countries.
The face of the World Bank is the rural electrification project I visited in Vietnam that frees time for a girl to go to school because she can now grind rice and maize with a machine—and gives her light to study by. It is the public-private water partnership we helped finance in Senegal, which pipes safe water and removes wastes, that is cutting waterborne diseases and malaria while saving a valuable resource that now meets the needs of almost a million people. And it is the irrigation project we backed in Armenia that enables a farmer to expand his apple orchards while promoting transparency in payments for government services.
During fiscal year 2007, the World Bank Group committed $34.3 bill ion in loans, grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and to private businesses in member countries—up $2.7 billion (7.8 percent) from fiscal year 2006.
The World Bank Group institutions contributing to this financial outcome are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), which provides financing, risk management products, and otherfinancial services to members; the International Development Association (IDA), which provides interest-free loans and grants to the poorest countries; the International Finance Corporation (IFC), which makes equity investments, and provides loans, guarantees and advisory services to private-sector business in developing countries; and the Bank Group’s political risk insurance agency, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Investment Agency (MIGA).
IDA commitments were $11.9 billion, 25 percent higher than the previous year, and the highest in IDA’s history. IBRD commitments in fiscal year 2007 totaled $12.8 billion. IFC committed $8.2 billion for private sector development in developing countries, an all-time high, which topped last year’s total by $1.5 billion — and $3 billion of the total went to IDA countries. Of MIGA’s $1.4 billion in guarantees,
$387 million went to projects in IDA countries. MIGA’s exposure in IDA countries now stands at 41 percent of its portfolio.
In addition, IBRD carried out $5.4 billion in interest rate and currency risk management transactions on behalf of its members. This is an increase of more than three-fold over totals forthe past several years and highlights the expanding portfolio of financial services we offer. Furthermore, IFC mobilized an additional $3.9 billion through loan participations, structured finance, and parallel loans.
The World Bank Group can and should do much more. Given the great needs among diverse developing countries, the World Bank Group can make its capital, knowledge, and expertise work for people by creating customized development solutions for all. We will be investing in practical plans to move from poverty to prosperity. Working with partners and supporters from around the world, guided by a commitment to results, we will strive to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. This is the way we can advance an inclusive and sustainable globalization.
The world has changed enormously since the World Bank was created some 60 years ago. This unique and accomplished institution of development, reconstruction, and finance not only needs to adapt: it must find the ways to help all countries, particularly the poorest, to seize the benefits of changes in the world economy while better managing the risks.
The World Bank Group needs to be a strategic partner to clients, donors, and those that are both. It should be a development innovator in fragile states and those struggling to come out of conflicts. It can be a designerand implementer of local solutions to global challenges of the environment and disease, while serving as a steward of our natural environment and a first responderto climate change. It must be a facilitator of rules, institutions, and markets that can tap trade and finance for people in developing countries seeking hope, opportunity, and the dignity of personal enterprise.
This year has not been an easy one. Yet we are regaining momentum and building energy. I have seen that the World Bank Group’s most valuable resource—the talented and dedicated people who bring its work to life—are highly motivated bythe Bank’s core mission: to end poverty. They are moving forward. It is a privilege to get to know them and to work with them.
r/1 o<y
Robert B. Zoellick
THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the Bank’s general operations. They perform their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, 5 of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by single countries having the largest number of shares. The rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years. The resident Board of Executive Directors (the Board) represents the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank as well as its operational experience.
The Board considers and decides on the IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and IDA credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made bythe Bank’s President. Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations of the Bank and its strategic direction. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors audited accounts, an administrative budget, and an annual report (this report) on the operations and policies of the Bank, as well as any other matters that, in theirjudgment, require submission to the Board of Governors. The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) reports directly to the Board with independent advice on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations.
Executive Directors serve on one or more standing committees: Audit; Budget; Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE); Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters (COGAM); and Personnel. With the committees’ help, the Board discharges its oversight responsibilities through indepth examinations of policies and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, an informal advisory body, also meets regularly.
The Board’s work remained closely aligned with the twin pillars of the Bank’s strategic framework-promoting a favorable investment climate and empowering poor people.
In March 2007, the Bank President initiated a broader look at the Bank’s long-term strategy. This review, which will be the first sustained review since the current twin pillars strategy was adopted in January 2001, will be led by the Chief Economist The papers and reports that the Board considered in fiscal 2007 included such topics as trends in official development assistance; progress in the Bank’s Africa Action Plan; progress with the Clean Energy for Development Investment Framework; implementation issues surrounding debt relief, including development of a comprehensive framework for the settlement of protracted arrears cases; and progress on global trade, specifically the Doha Development Agenda and Aid for Trade. The Board also discussed the Bank’s policy for rapid response to crises and endorsed a new framework for strengthening the Bank’s engagement in fragile states. On the governance and anticorruption (GAC) agenda, Executive Directors supported the principles of transparency, predictability, consistency, and equity of treatment across member countries. They also reaffirmed their engagement and oversight during implementation of the GAC agenda. With respect to the External Review Committee on Bank-Fund Collaboration, Directors noted the importance of effective collaboration between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
OVERSIGHT AND FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY
The Board exercises oversight and fiduciary responsibilities, in part through its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has a mandate to assist the Board in overseeing and making decisions regarding the World Bank Group’s financial condition, its risk management and assessment processes, the adequacy of its governance and controls, and its reporting and accounting policies and procedures.
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
The total administrative budget for fiscal 2007, reviewed by the Budget Committee and approved by the Executive Directors, was $2,119 million, net of reimbursements, including $171.8 millionforthe Development Grant Facility and the Institutional Grant Programs. The net administrative budget of $1,591.3 million represented a 3.1 percent nominal increase over the fiscal 2006 budget. In June 2007, the Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $2,148.3 million forfiscal 2008.
INSPECTION PANEL
In fiscal 2007, the Inspection Panel received six requests for inspection involving Bank projects in five countries. Since the panel’s establishment, 46 requests for inspection have been received: 14 from Africa, 15 from Latin America and the Caribbean, 11 from South Asia, 4 from East Asia and Pacific, and 2 from Europe and Central Asia. Of the 46 requests, 41 were registered, and the panel has recommended investigations in 22 cases, 6 under the rules that applied before the April 1999 clarifications to the resolution that established the
panel, and 16 since those clarifications were adopted. As of June 2007, the panel was conducting three investigations.
The Inspection Panel provides a vehicle for private citizens, especially poor people, to bring claims to the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors, who then decide, on the recommendation of the panel, whether an investigation will take place. The process for addressing claims has empowered and given voice to people who may have been affected adversely by Bank-financed projects.
Requests for inspection, management responses, panel recommendations, panel investigation reports, and management recommendations for projects reviewed this fiscal year can be found at www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.
RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT AND SELECTION OF NEW PRESIDENT
In April 2007, the Board was faced with a leadership crisis that led to the resignation of the World Bank Group’s President, Paul D. Wolfowitz. The Board has since unanimously confirmed Robert B. Zoellick as the Bank’s 11th President, as of July 1, 2007, for a five-year term.
THE INDEPENDENT EVALUATION GROUP
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) is an independent unit within the World Bank Group that assesses the relevance and impact of the Bank Group's work to reduce poverty and improve people's lives in a sustainable manner. It reports directly to the Executive Directors. lEG's goals are to contribute to the objective basis for assessing results, to provide accountability in the achievement of development objectives, and to share learning gained from experience. IEG makes its findings
available to the broader development community and the public at large.
Summary highlights of lEG's activities in fiscal 2007— in areas such as infrastructure, clean energy, fragile states, rapid response, education, governance, and anticorruption—are provided throughout this report. (See www.worldbank.org/ieg.)
To recruit and retain highly qualified staff, the World Bank Group has developed a compensation and benefits system designed to be internationally competitive, to reward performance, and to take into account the special needs of a multinational and largely expatriate staff. The Bank Group’s staff salary structure is reviewed annually by the Executive Directors and, if warranted, is adjusted on the basis of a comparison with salaries paid by private financial and industrial firms and by representative public sector agencies in the U.S. market. After analyses of updated comparator salaries, the Board approved an average increase in the salary structure of 3.5 percent for fiscal 2007, effective July 1, 2006, for Washington-based staff.
Executive Management
On June 25, 2007, the Executive Directors unanimously selected Robert B. Zoellick as President to take effect as of July 1, 2007. His annual salary (net of taxes) is $420,930.* As of June 30, 2007, the annual salaries (net of taxes) of executive management of
Executive Directors
Upon the recommendation of the Board of Governors’ Committee on the Remuneration of Executive Directors, the Governors approved the remuneration of Executive Directors and theirAlternates effective July 1, 2006, to be as follows: the remuneration of Executive Directors is $212,980 (net of tax); the remuneration of Alternate Executive Directors is $184,240 (net of tax).
Staff Salary Structure (Washington, DC)
During the period July 1, 2006, to June 30, 2007, the salary structure (net of tax) for World Bank Group staff was as follows:
The number of people living in extreme poverty was estimated to have dipped below one billionforthefirsttime since the World Bank began measuring poverty in 1990.
World Bank commitments totaled $24.7 billion in fiscal 2007. This amount included loans, credits, guarantees, and grants, and was 4- percent higherthan total lending in fiscal 2006.
For details, see chapter 3 and the accompanying CD-ROM.
•	IBRD committed $12.8 billion for 112 projects in fiscal 2007. This was a decline of 9 percent in the dollar amount of commitments from fiscal 2006. For details, see chapters 2 and 3 and the accompanying CD-ROM.
•	IDA committed $11.9 billion for 189 operations in fiscal 2007. This was a record high for IDA, with commitments 25 percent higher in dollar terms than in fiscal 2006. For details, see chapters 2 and 3 and the accompanying CD-ROM.
•	Africa received the highest funding, at $5.8 billion, which isa recordforthe region. Fordetails,seechapter2and the accompanying CD-ROM.
•	India was the single largest borrower, with $3.8 billion in commitments. Commitments to South Asia overall were nearly 50 percent higherthan in fiscal 2006. For details, see chapter 2 and the accompanying CD-ROM.
The Bank delivered 531 economicandsectorworkand 430 technical assistance (nonlending) products in fiscal 2007. For details, see chapter 3.
In its "Annual Report on Portfolio Performance," the Quality Assurance Group found that the share of well-performing Bank projects at completion reached 81 percent in fiscal 2006, a level unmatched in the past 25 years. For details, see chapter 3.
The Independent Evaluation Group produced 13 major evaluations reviewing the Bank’s performance on a range of activities, including transport, agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa, the Annual Review of Development Effectiveness, and reviews of country assistance programs in Mali and Ukraine. For details, see www.worldbank.org/ieg.
Representatives of donor countries, borrower countries, and observers from other multilateral banks met to discuss the fifteenth replenishment of IDA in Paris in March 2007, and again in Maputo in June 2007. For details, see chapter 3.
The Executive Directors approved new strategies for financial and private sector development; health, nutrition, and population; and governance and anticorruption. For details, see chapter 1.
A leadership crisis led to the resignation of the World Bank’s President, Paul D. Wolfowitz, effective June 30, 2007.
On June 25, 2007, the Board of Executive Directors unanimously selected Robert B. Zoellick as President to take effect as of July 1, 2007.
ACHANGING ENVIRONMENT
The World Bank’s client countries experienced a remarkable year, with average per capita gross domestic product (GDP) rising an estimated 6 percent in 2006. Even more significant, trends of sustained growth are emerging: annual per capita GDP growth in developing countries has averaged 3.9 percent since 2000, and 16 African countries—home to more than a third of the region’s population—have enjoyed annual growth of more than 4.5 percent over the past decade. This growth has benefited the poor, with the number of people living in extreme poverty dipping below 1 billion forthe first time since the Bank began measuring poverty, in 1990.
Clearly, developing economies are performing. Now is the time to meet that performance with increased aid. Donor countries have committed billions in debt relief and have met emergencies with well-timed assistance, thereby making an important contribution to the ability of poor countries to achieve their development goals. Further support could go beyond mitigating the burden of debt and disasterto enable performers to invest more in priority areas such as infrastructure, education, and health.
For many low-income countries, the development finance landscape has been transformed by unprecedented access to private capital—though that access is still uneven, with the poorest 51 countries receiving just 8 percent of the total in
2006.	Meanwhile, traditional aid now comes from an abundance of donors, including some countries newly arrived at lending, and still others, such as foundations or even individuals, with highly specific goals. Taken as a whole, these are encouraging signs, especially when support aligns readily with national priorities.
This transformation underscores the vital convening role of the international Development Association, which serves as a cornerstone of the international aid system in many poor countries. IDA provides such countries with reliable aid
support and leverages the assistance of other donors for coherent, country-owned programs and projects. IDA’s efforts forge stronger partnerships between aid providers and recipient countries, leading to better outcomes for the poor.
The coming yearwill be crucialfor IDA’s clients, as donors will be confirming their commitments to the 15th replenishment of IDA. IDA15 will provide resources to assist the world’s poorest countries from July 2008 through June 2011 —critical years for developing countries trying to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Given the long lag time before development projects yield measurable results, IDA15 may be the last major opportunity for donors to support developing-country efforts to make significant progress toward achieving the MDGs by 2015.
For middle-income countries, access to market-based financing and risk-management tools continued to improve in fiscal 2007, as their costs of borrowing declined to near all-time lows. These countries require development partners that are flexible and responsive and that can provide a broad array of financing, risk-management, and credit-enhancement products, provided quickly and at lowertrans-action costs. Internationalfinancial institutions, including the World Bank, must adapt to such changes in client complexion and outlook and to the constant changes in the global economic environment.
The World Bank uniquely must adapt to these changes while staying loyal to its vision: a world free of poverty. It pursues this end by focusing on its areas of comparative advantage, supporting client countries’ pursuit of sustained and equitable economic growth. The Bank’s support includes knowledge services, financial services, and strategy and coordination services. Additionally, the Bank advocates the adoption of prodevelopment policies around the world, particularly in relation to trade.
This report looks at the activities undertaken in the past fiscal year in the fight against poverty. The report pays special attention to Africa and focuses on five critical areas where the Bank can have a distinct impact: health, education, and gender; infrastructure and clean energy; financial and private sector development; governance and anticorruption; and in developing its strategy for middle-income countries.
HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND GENDER
improvements in the areas of health, education, and gender are fundamental to achievingthe Bank’s mission: sixofthe eight MDGs address them, and complex interrelationships exist among the three. Progress in these areas requires vigilance, especially in Africa, where each has been highlighted as a flagship area for Bank support, in accordance with client country priorities.
Health, Nutrition, and Population
Across the world, poor people face high mortality rates, malnutrition, and limited access to reproductive and other basic health services. At the same time, millions fall into
poverty every year as a result of illness. Health conditions are particularly dire in Africa, where no country is on track to meet the child mortality MDG.
Recent years have seen massive increases in international aid for health, with much of it targeted to specific diseases, such as HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome), tuberculosis, and malaria. However, relatively few resources have been provided to support health systems, and few institutions are in a position to bring donors, single-cause funds, and other sources togetherto help countries improve health outcomes. This is an area to which the World Bank is strongly committed and in which it has a comparative advantage. The Bank’s updated strategy in health, nutrition, and population (HNP), discussed by the Board in April 2007, draws on the Bank’s long experience in health financing, health systems, and cross-sectoral investments (box 1.1). Under the new strategy, lending in HNP will be even more closely tied to results than it has been in the past. The Bank will work across sectors and engage with a diverse group of actors to strengthen health systems and interventions, a necessary step for achieving improved treatment and prevention of any single disease. The Bank will also work
to prevent poverty resulting from illness and to improve governance, accountability, and transparency in the health sector.
Lending for HNP, including health financing, reached $1.83 bill ion in fiscal 2007. Health systems performance was a dominant theme in fiscal 2007, representing $739 million in new lending. Support to population and reproductive health programs totaled $303 million, and support to the treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS reached $300 million.
The Bank has long supported health-related projects in countries such as Argentina, Ghana, Mozambique, and Tanzania, where a wide range of lending approaches has been used overtime. Bank assistance has also had a positive effect in postconflict countries (box 1.2). For example, in Afghanistan and Timor-Leste, armed conflict resulted in huge losses in health personnel, infrastructure, and management capacity. Consequently, the countries turned to civil society organizations to provide basic health services. As conflict died down, both governments developed new strategies to integrate public and nonstate health service providers using robust monitoring and contracting approaches. Bank financing for HNP and other sectors, as well as support for public financing reforms, helped the governments implement these
strategies. In Afghanistan, the immediate result has been a fourfold increase in the use of health services in target provinces. In Timor-Leste, the average use of health services increased from one annual visit per person to at least two-and-a-half visits. Measles immunizations rose from 26 percent to 73 percent of children, and skilled attendance at birth increased from 26 percent to 41 percent.
Most of the analytic work and technical assistance the Bank provided in fiscal 2007 concentrated on health systems issues. Two reports, Health Financing Revisited and Beyond Survival, summarize global lessons in health financing and provide policy recommendations based on the specific economic, political, and institutional conditions countries face.
Education
The World Bank is the world’s largest source of external investment support for improving education in middle- and low-income countries, having transferred about $40 billion in loans and credits for education since it started lending to the sector in 1963. This represents nearly 7 percent of total lending overthat 44-year period. As with health, the Bank has a unique ability to consult with national governments, United
Nations (UN) ag encies, bilateral agencies, donors, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders to support developing countries in their efforts to provide education to all their citizens as a means to empowerthem and to boost economic growth.
Education lending in fiscal 2007 reached $2 billion. The Bank provided about $1.6 billion in I DA funding, an all-time high. Aid to Africa—which had declined steadily overthe past five years to a low of $339 million in fiscal 2006—reached $707 million, nearly all from IDA, in fiscal 2007.
The Bank approved 28 education projects in fiscal 2007. These included $280 million for vocational and technical education in India; nearly $250 million for two projects in Nigeria aimed at increasing access and learning in primary schools and at improving the quality of higher education;
The Bank has responded to a growing number of emergency situations in recentyears. It has helped countries recover from natural disasters, such as the 2004 tsunami in the Indian Ocean and the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan; it has supported reconstruction in postconflict situations; it has helped to avert outbreaks of pandemics, such as the avian flu; and it has responded to manmade disasters, such as oil spills. The 2006 report bythe Independent Evaluation Group, HazardsofNature, Risks to Development, noted that although there have been manysuccesses, the Bank’s response has often lacked the speed and effectiveness that emergencies demand.
To address these issues, the Board approved a new policy framework in February 2007 for rapid response to emergency and crisis situations. The new framework allows the Bank to act more quickly by acknowledging the wide range of situations encompassed bytheterms crisis and emergency and by simplifying procedures and requirements in emergency operations. The new framework addresses constraints faced in the early (and often critical) stages of recovery and establishes a basis for the Bank to work with countries to reduce the risk of crises and disasters in the first place.
To support implementation of the new policy, the Bank drew on staff from across the institution with experience in emergency work. As soon as the new policy framework took effect, task teams began to implement it. The new policywas first applied to imminent crises. The EmergencySocialand Urban Rehabilitation Project, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, was the first project to receive approval under the new policy. The project addresses the escalating risk of crisis in that country. Four other projects were subsequently approved under the new policy in fiscal 2007.
At the global level, the Bank is working with the United Nations on a framework fiduciary agreement to facilitate World Bank-United Nations collaboration during crises and emergencies. In addition, as part of the effort to reduce the risk of disaster in high-risk countries, the Bank has joined with other donors and the United Nations in creating the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery, which will help countries develop and implement disaster risk— mitigation strategies and will provide funds for reconstruction. (See www.worldbank.org/hazards.)
$150 million for postconflict support for education in the Democratic Republic of Congo; and $80 million for decentralizing education in Kenya.
Because education’s role in broadly shared growth is complex and pervasive, 79 investment projects or development policy operations approved in fiscal 2007 contain funding to support education. Forthis same reason, the Bank’s approach to education has often involved addressing problems outside education that hinder development of the sector. Reducing or eliminating school fees, addressing HIV/AIDS in schools, and devolving decision making and funding to schools and parents are examples of reform priorities that require a cross-cutting approach.
Seven low-income countries—Benin, Cambodia, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, and Sierra Leone-received a total of $265 million in grant support under the
Education for AH Fast-Track Initiative (FTI) in fiscal 2007. The FTI is a global partnership between donor and developing countries that helps to provide increased, better coordinated, and more effective aid to countries with sound education plans. These grants were made underthe FTI Catalytic Fund, a multidonortrustfund managed bythe Bank that provides transitional financial assistance to countries whose education sector plans have been endorsed underthe FTI process but that have difficulty mobilizing sufficient external funding. Thirty-one countries are now endorsed by the FTI.
Fiscal 2007 saw other encouraging results. Worldwide, the number of primary-school-age children out of school has fallen from about 100 million in 2000 to an estimated 77 million in 2006, and the ratio of girls to boys in primary schools is rising rapidly in many countries (box 1.3). The greatest increases
Burkina Faso's primary school enrollment rate was among the lowest in the world in the 1990s. Enrollment was very low in rural areas, where children, particularly girls, were kept at home because of the distance to school, the high cost of schooling, and the high opportunity costs for poor families whose children contributed significantly to family income.
To address the problem, IDA brought $32.6 million to a $110 million program supporting the government’s Basic Education 10-Year Program. Just as significantly, it provided a framework that harmonized support from all partners— Belgium, Canada, Denmark, the European Commission, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, UNICEF, and nongovernmental organizations—through a common-basket fund that allowed effective allocation of project resources.
The first phase of the program, completed in fiscal 2007, improved access to primary education in rural areas by constructing and rehabilitating schools and financing
equipment and facilities. It also supported curriculum development, teachertraining, and capacity building within the Ministry of Basic Education, paying particular attention to financial management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, and donor coordination.
As a result of the program, an additional 550,000 children have since been enrolled in primary school. Gross enrollment rates nationwide increased to 62 percent (55 percent for girls) in 2006, up from 42 percent (36 percent for girls) in
2000.	In the 20 most underprivileged provinces, enrollment rose to 47 percent (41 percent for girls) from 30 percent (24 percent for girls) over the same period.
IDA will continue to support the government’s 10-year program to ensure that the foundations laid for the reform will be strengthened over time. A Post-Primary Education Project that builds on the current operation is being implemented to address access and equity in secondary education. (See www.worldbank.org/burkinafaso.)
in enrollments have occurred in South Asia. Bangladesh has raised gross primary enrollment rates to almost 100 percent and has already met the MDG on gender parity in school enrollment. These hopeful signs suggest that globalization can work in support of shared growth in the countries that continue to invest in education.
In addition to investment support, the Bank continues to produce sector analyses and cross-cutting analytical reports that raise local awareness and increase global knowledge. More than 30 education sector papers or strategy documents were prepared in fiscal 2007, and numerous Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers addressed education. Feedback from governmental counterparts and nongovernmental actors indicates that the Bank’s policy advice and global knowledge base are at least as important as its financial support.
A redoubling of efforts will be required in education in fiscal 2008 and beyond. Only 25 of 81 IDA-eligible countries have achieved or are on track to achieve universal completion of primary school by 2015 (the second MDG). Bank support for reaching this goal, including support through the interagency FTI, has mostly emphasized increased access, according to an Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) analysis from fiscal 2007. Although the Bank was widely successful in increasing enrollment and access, problems with student dropout and learning outcomes remained. IEG recommended that future Bank support increase the emphasis on learning outcomes and on improved system management and governance and that the Bank work with FTI partners to reorient the initiative. Since that evaluation, all new primary education projects have been reviewed forattention to learning outcomes; programs of analysis, training, and policy dialogue have been organized around the theme of learning outcomes and assessment; and the Bank has engaged its FTI partners in building learning outcomes into the initiative. Measuring learning results and benchmarking them against local and interna-
tional standards will help link countries to the global economy. (See www.worldbank.org/education.)
Gender Equality
The Bank has a strong comparative advantage in the promotion of gender equality. The Bank’s analytical capacity puts it in a good position to make the business case for gender equality and to document how increased gender equality can accelerate shared growth. Operationally, the wide sectoral scope of the Bank’s lending means that it is able to take advantage of many entry points—ranging from health and education to financial markets and infrastructure—to promote gender equality.
During fiscal 2007, the Bank adopted an action plan to empower women economically. The plan, "Gender Equality as Smart Economics," launched operations in all developing regions. These operations included new activities targeting agriculture, private sector development, financial services, and infrastructure to help increase the productivity and earnings of women producers.
In Tanzania, where women have very poor access to financial services, the plan has established a line of commercial credit forwomen through a local bank. The program is providing training to women to increase their "bankability," and it is supporting regulatory reforms to give women better access to credit. This project and others underthe genderaction plan can facilitate women’s transition to good-quality employment; can increase the number of women starting agribusinesses and engaging in high-value agriculture; and can boost women’s access to essential infrastructure services, particularly transport, water, and energy.
The Multi-Country AIDS Project for Africa has focused particular attention on addressing gender dynamics in its response to the pandemic. In Chad, IDA funds a project to reduce the transmission and socioeconomic impact of
HIV/AIDS by supporting education and income-generating activities for women. In Rwanda, IDA has financed access to antiretroviral care for 5,000 poor rural people, most of them women. In Africa generally, IDA has financed services to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission for more than
1.5	million women and has helped distribute 1.3 billion male and 4 million female condoms.
The focus of the Bank’s Global Monitoring Report 2007 was on gender equality and on the progress of member countries in meeting the related official MDGs. The report identified gaps and developed a set of complementary indicators to strengthen gender-equality monitoring.
Financial support from the governments of Canada, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom continues to encourage innovation in the mainstreaming of gender issues in the Bank’s work. (See www .worldbank.org/genderequality]
INFRASTRUCTURE AND CLEAN ENERGY
Infrastructure
Improving infrastructure in developing countries is key to reducing poverty, increasing growth, and achieving the MDGs. Leaders of developing countries often saythey need not only more and better infrastructure facilities and services but infrastructure that is environmentally sound, socially accepted, and financially sustainable.
By building on the increased investment opportunities available underthe Infrastructure Action Plan and by integrating the lessons learned in its long involvement in infrastructure worldwide, the World Bank has remained a leader in working with developing countries in this area. It assists them in providing the basic sustainable infrastructure capacity and services needed for permanent poverty reduction.
The Bank increased commitments involving infrastructure to $9.9 billion in fiscal 2007, a 24 percent increase over the previous year. Transport remained the largest component, with $4.9 billion in lending (50 percent of the total), followed by new water and sanitation commitments of $3.1 billion (31 percent of the total).
The Bank supports activities in a wide range of infrastructure services, including energy, transport, water supply and
sanitation, urban services, land use management, and information and communication technologies. A key area of involvement in the last year has been the promotion of clean energy investments to help the international community deal with growing threats from global warming and climate change (see "Clean Energy," below, and box 1.4).
The Bank provides financial assistance for investment projects; leverages financing from donors and the private sector; and engages in policy dialogue and provides advice
on sector reforms, working with country partners to build and strengthen institutions. The Bank’s infrastructure agenda is particularly relevant to Africa, where 300 million people lack access to improved water sources, 450 million people lack adequate sanitation services, and transport costs are among the highest in the world.
The continued growth in lending was accompanied by an organizational realignment that saw infrastructure units within the Bank integrated with units working on the environment, agriculture and rural development, and social development. The result was the creation of a robust Sustainable Development Vice Presidency charged with ensuring that Bank infrastructure programs yield the kinds of environmentally and socially sustainable programs that countries need and request.
A report produced by the former infrastructure unit— Infrastructure at the Crossroads: Lessons from 20 Years of World Bank Experience-foreshadowed the integration by exploring the importance of integrating environmental and social dimensions into project identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision, and of allocating sufficient resources to mitigate any adverse impacts of development.
IEG has been actively reviewing the Bank’s work in infrastructure in fiscal 2007. A recent IEG evaluation of Bank assistance to the transport sector concluded that past performance has generally been effective but that the focus on rural and intercity roads is insufficient because of the rapidly growing impact of urbanization and globalization. More emphasis needs to be given to the reduction of urban
The number of people affected by droughts and Hoods in Kenya is doubling every decade. To help poor people deal with the impact of such climatic shocks, IDA funded two phases of the Arid Lands Resource Management Program. The program has been successful in addressing short-term impacts of climate variability and is now focusing on addressing the longer-term impacts of climate change.
Climate models project a substantial increase of up to 5 degrees Celsius in the annual average temperature for Kenya by the end of the century. While uncertainties remain regarding the changes in average rainfall, projections clearly indicate a growing risk of both dry spells and intense
precipitation events. Recognizing this, IDA provided an additional $60 million in financing in fiscal 2007 to deepen and broaden the government’s efforts to address climate variability, and the Global Environment Facility is contributing an additional $5 million in fiscal 2008 to deal with these risks. The next phase aims to increase institutional capacity to plan for climate change by improving information Hows and analytical capacity; to promote public and private investment through incentives forappropriate investment; and to increase community resilience by piloting and demonstrating alternative livelihood options through community-based microprojects. (Seewww.worldbank.org/ kenya]
traffic congestion, vehicle emissions, and accidents. IEG also looked at management of agricultural water. Effective management is vital forfeeding growing populations and for managing competition from urban regions for limited water resources. IEG called for greater attention to the role of agricultural policy and trade in alleviating regional water shortages, and it encouraged the Bank to demonstrate the impact of sound agricultural water management on poverty reduction, employment, and health. (See www.worldbank .org/infrastructure]
Clean Energy
Increasing access to safe, modern, and economical energy in developing countries, and working to ensure that this energy is as clean as possible, is a major and growing field of activity forthe Bank. Asa leading international organization with the financial, technical, and human capacity to work throughout the developing world, the Bank is in a unique position to help countries accelerate their use of clean energy for sustainable development. The Bank has consistently surpassed the target it set for itself in 2004 to increase its annual investments in energy efficiency and new renewable energy by an average of 20 percent between fiscal years 2005 and 2009. In the first two years of that commitment, investments in new renewable energy and energy efficiency totaled $1.13 billion, more than double the target of $552 million overthe two years.
Additionally, the Bank is developing a Clean Energy Investment Framework, which addresses three interrelated issues: accelerating investments that help increase supplies of clean energy for development and improve access to affordable energy forthe poor, particularly in Africa; promotingthe transition to a low-carbon economy; and assisting developing countries as they adapt to the inevitable impact of climate variability and change.
Total energy support from all sources—including the Bank Group, the Carbon Finance Unit, and the Global Environment Facility— is expected to exceed $10 billion in the three-year period beginning in fiscal 2006, upfrom $7 billion over the previous three years. Furthermore, an action plan in support
of the Clean Energy Investment Framework will encourage the expansion of African initiatives that aim to increase the number of households with access to modern energy from
25	percent today to 35 percent by 2015 and to 47 percent by 2030. The plan also aims to support the transition to a low-carbon economy—especially in Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa — by increasing analytical, knowledge, and investment support. The plan also seeks to assist countries as they adapt to climate variability and change by providing for analytical work and for development of risk-management instruments and othertools and methodologies. The goal is not just to increase investments but to "climate proof" them as well.
IEG assessed a subset of the Bank’s clean energy portfolio—that is, new and renewable energy—in fiscal 2007 and found its work responsive to the needs of developing countries and in agreement with the Bank’s overall energy strategy. In its review, IEG recommended that the Bank continue to support investment climates conducive to commercialization of new and renewable energy and to make allowances for the long periods often required for adoption of renewable energy sources. IEG further recommended that the Bank strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of its renewable energy projects. The review encouraged the Bank to support new and renewable energy in country and energy sector strategies. (See www.worldbank.org/ infrastructureandcleanenergy]
FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
The financial and private sectors play a central role in meeting the World Bank Group’s development mission.
Deep, efficient, and well-regulated financial markets and a good legal and regulatory environment forthe private sector give firms—from microenterprises to multinationals—the opportunity to invest productively, create jobs, and grow. Well-functioning markets play a key role in helping poor people rise out of poverty by leveling the playing field of opportunityforwould-be entrepreneurs and employers and by providing poor households with improved opportunities to earn incomes, save, obtain credit, and bufferthemselves against hard times. Efficient markets are especially needed
in Africa, where financial and private sector development is uneven; the burden of business regulation is excessive; access to finance is limited, especially in rural areas; and financial intermediation is less widespread than in any other region in the world.
Until this year, the Bank maintained separate networks for private sectorand financial sector development. In view of the close ties between the two, the networks were merged in fiscal 2007 to create a central vice presidency for Financial and Private Sector Development (FPD). FPD is a joint Bank-IFC-MIGA vice presidency, and the Vice President leads the coordination of Bank and IFC technical assistance to governments in support of financial and private sector development. The new vice presidency focuses on creating the institutional foundations for effective markets, promoting open and competitive markets, and supporting social safety nets using market-based approaches.
The Board discussed a newfinancial strategy in April 2007. The strategy identifies important changes in the Bank Group’s business environment that necessitate changes in its strategic focus, in the model for its advisory services, and in the allocation of Bank and IFC support. The Bank Group has extensive country and global knowledge of the microfoundations of effective financial markets and institutions. Its investments and advisory work offer unique insights on how financial issues play out in sectors ranging from agriculture to health care. The Bank Group is thus well-placed to see all aspects of financial reform within the broader economic development agenda. This expertise enables it to engage at a practical level with countries in reform and to provide a development voice in international standard-setting bodies. In keeping with this comparative advantage, areas of special focus going forward are the development of market infrastructure (such as contract rights and enforcement, payments systems, credit information systems, and disclosure standards); prudential oversight (compatible with better risk management and wider access to financial services); and targeted initiatives to improve access to finance for the underserved and to develop domestic capital markets.
Using information—ratherthan loans or conditionality—to promote change, the Doing Business report, a joint Bank-IFC publication that is published annually, informs governments in 175 economies on how regulations help or hinder businesses in their countries. Since the project’s inception in 2003, more than 70 regulatory reforms have been inspired or informed by Doing Business, making it easierto start, run, or close down businesses around the world. In addition to the Doing Business report, a series of subnational reports published in fiscal 2007 covered states and cities in Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Mexico, and Pakistan.
Complementing the Doing Business analysis are enterprise surveys, through which the Enterprise Analysis unit seeks to obtain firm-level views on constraints to doing business. By the end of fiscal 2007, the unit had surveyed
65,000	firms in more than 90 countries. Additionally, the unit piloted a new instrument in fiscal 2007 to survey businesspeople in the retail, microenterprise, and information technology sectors in India.
The Bank continues to assess corporate governance and to assist countries in improving their corporate governance practices. In fiscal 2007, it completed nine corporate governance reviews, including four corporate governance Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes, four
reviews of governance at state-owned enterprises, and one review of corporate governance in the banking sector.
Fourteen financial sector assessments were completed underthejoint World Bank-International Monetary Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program in fiscal 2007, including six second-round assessments (updates). To perform assessments, staff from the Bank and the Fund-assisted by experts from cooperating official agencies—conduct a comprehensive peer review of a country’s financial system. This review helps countries prioritize appropriate policy responses to discovered vulnerabilities. The assessment teams also highlight opportunities for improving the sector’s ability to promote sound economic development. The pipeline for fiscal 2008 indicates that demand forthe program continues unabated.
During fiscal 2007, FPD established a program to develop financial markets that would help households deal with risk. The program — Financial Markets for Social Safety Nets— addresses housing finance, funded pensions, and insurance. The housing finance unit helped increase access to housing finance for lower-income households and expanded residential mortgage markets through loans, grants, and advisory services in all regions. The pension unit prepared reports on the Brazilian and Czech pension systems, which the relevant
governments can use to strengthen the case for reform. The insurance unit supports the provision of health, life, livestock, and crop insurance to the poor; such programs are already active in Africa, East Asia, and South Asia. The Financial Markets for Social Safety Nets Program is currently supervising $2.5 bill ion in Bank loans and is supporting preparation of new loans worth $1.5 billion.
FPD continues to invest in Web sites, training programs, case studies, and how-to guides in orderto share knowledge. Five practitioner toolkits were published in fiscal 2007 on licensing, alternative dispute resolution, public-private dialogue, inspections, and business registration.
FPD also partners with institutions outside the World Bank Group to further its mission. The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)—funded by the Bank, IFC, and MIGA, togetherwith several donors—helps developing countries improve their business environments in orderto increase private sector activity and investments with positive development impact (also see page 62). The Consultative Group to Assist the Poor—a 33-member, independent institution housed at the World Bank—works with financial institutions, ratings agencies, governments, funders, and others to promote microfinance. FPD also promotes better corporate governance in private sector companies through the Global Corporate Governance Forum. This multidonortrust fund was cofounded by the World Bank Group and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to promote local, regional, and global initiatives that improve the institutional framework and practices of corporate governance. FPD manages the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative (FIRST), which donors pledged to continue supporting through 2012. FIRST promotes stable, deep, and diverse financial sectors by providing grants.
Since it was set up in 2002, the initiative has supported about 220 technical assistance projects in the financial sector.
The Bank sharpened its focus on fighting money laundering and the financing of terrorism in Africa this fiscal year.
A parliamentarian forum, organized with the Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption, provided
parliamentarians—the majorityfrom Africa—with a forum in which to discuss challenges associated with fighting corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing. The Bank also funded several multiyear comprehensive technical assistance programs in Africa that seek to develop systems that protect market integrity without hampering access to finance. (See www.worldbank.org/finance]
STRENGTHENING GOVERNANCE AND REDUCING CORRUPTION
Improving governance and fighting corruption helps countries to better deliver basic services and to create growth and employment opportunities forthe benefit of the poor. This work is therefore fundamental to the Bank’s mission. In March 2007, the Board unanimously endorsed a new strategy on
Bank engagement on governance and anticorruption. Under this strategy, the Bank will expand and strengthen its support for improving governance and curbing corruption in orderto fight poverty; improve the delivery of services; strengthen the environment for private investment; and foster economic growth at the project, country, and global levels (box 1.5).
Activities at the Project Level
Governance and anticorruption are being addressed at the project level across the Bank’s portfolio, including in public sector reform, infrastructure, health, extractive industries, and the financial sector. In fiscal 2007, World Bank support to governance was $3.8 billion—$3.4 billion to public sector governance and $424 million to support the rule of law. This comprised 15 percent of Bank lending.
Agreement on the Bank’s governance and anticorruption strategywas the result of a systematic consensus-building process. A draft strategy was presented to the World Bank-International Monetary Fund Development Committee at the Annual Meetings in Singapore in September 2006. Between November 2006 and January 2007 the Bank held consultations with a range of stakeholders—including governments, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral and bilateral development partners—in 35 developing countries and
12	donorcountries. The Bankalso participated in fourglobal events and solicited online feedback, reaching more than 3,200 stakeholders worldwide.
Key messages from these consultations included the following:
•	Stay engaged, even in poorly governed settings
•	Engage not just with governments but with a range of stakeholders, including legislatures and the judiciary, the private sector, civil society, and the media
•	Strengthen country systems—such as public financial management, procurement, regulatory, legal, and administrative frameworks—to fight corruption
•	Increase the emphasis on disclosure, participation, and third-party monitoring of Bank operations
•	Harmonize the Bank’s actions with those of donors and other actors
•	Enhance monitoring and evaluation of the Bank’s governance and anticorruption activities through the use of disaggregated or “actionable” indicators of governance
This process brought about a strategy that identifies mechanisms to build transparent, accountable, and capable states; outlines instruments to improve monitoring and curb corruption in projects the Bank funds; harmonizes the Bank’s efforts with those of other development partners; and encourages collaboration with the range of development actors. (See www.worldbank.org/governance.)
Assistance for governance includes support for increasing transparency in public financial management, strengthening tax and customs administration, enhancing civil service performance, supporting legal and judicial reforms, and enabling local and central governments to deliver services more effectively and with greater accountability to local communities. A project in Afghanistan is funding improvements in procurement and financial management. In Cambodia, the Bank is supporting more transparent civil service pay structures. In the difficult postconflict environment of Liberia, the Bank, underthe multidonor Governance and Economic Management Action Plan, helped streamline budget execution processes and fiduciary controls while building capacity. By providing Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grants, the Bank has helped strengthen the capacity of Mexico’s Federal Institute for Access to Information. IDF grants have also allowed the Slovak Republic to redesign and streamline the judicial system and increase access to justice.
The Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) investigates allegations of corruption involving Bank operations and possible staff misconduct. The Bank offers multiple outlets for reporting allegations of fraud, corruption, and other misconduct in Bank-financed projects, including an international hotline (+1-800-831-0463). In fiscal 2007, INT released the IntegrityReport ofthe World Bank Group, Fiscal Years 2005-2006, which details actions the Bank has taken in investigating fraud, corruption, and other misconduct over
that period. The programmatic elements of a newVoluntary Disclosure Program were approved by the Board in August 2006 to elicit voluntary cooperation in the fight against corruption from firms that have previously engaged in wrongdoing. Information on the companies and individuals the Bank has sanctioned is publicly available on the Bank’s Web site.
An independent panel was established to review INT’s roles, responsibilities, and working relationships as part of the Bank’s governance and anticorruption strategy.
Activities at the Country Level
Improving governance has become a component of the Bank’s country assistance strategies (CASs) in most countries, and it is a central element in some, including those of Albania, Bangladesh, Indonesia, and several countries in Africa. Bank support for governance is channeled through a mix of lending, grant, analytical, and advisory instruments.
Consistent with its heightened focus on governance,
IDA makes its allocations based in large part on country performance ratings, and two-thirds of the value of this rating is based on a country’s governance. Research overthe past two decades has shown that governance has a strong impact on both development performance and aid effectiveness.
The global commitment to reducing poverty by increasing aid-supported by I DA— is based on the principle of mutual accountability: more aid is provided the greaterthe effectiveness of howaid is used. Aid is best increased using recipient
country systems for public policy making, budgeting, and service provision.
The World Bank Institute, the knowledge-sharing and learning arm of the World Bank, promotes the Bank’s governance and anticorruption agenda through its Global Governance Program. The program delivers courses and seminars, provides governance advisory services, and carries out operational research on various aspects of governance. These activities and diagnostic tools help support action planning for in-country reform. In fiscal 2007, the program published an updated set of governance indicators for 213 countries and territories. In partnership with bilateral agencies, local authorities, and civil society, the program is supporting in-depth governance and anticorruption diagnostic studies in Benin, Burundi, El Salvador, and Haiti; it is planning to complete studies in Kenya and Nigeria; and it has received preliminary requests for diagnostic-related assistance from
11	otherclient countries.
IEG finds that the bulk of the Bank’s assistance in governance and anticorruption has taken the form of reform programs in public administration and publicfinancial management. This assistance has often improved the quality of public sector management processes without translating into improvements in the perceived quality of governance. Yet recent progress in Eastern and Central Europe shows that it is possible to raise perceived quality in a limited time when there is strong country commitment to doing so. The IEG evaluation suggests that public sector reform initiatives have not always been aligned with political circumstances, focusing on new legislation and institutions while overlooking the enforcement dimension. Reform initiatives have also tended to overlook the interface between the public and the private sectors even though regulatory reforms have often been effective against corruption.
Activities at the Global Level
The Bank is expanding partnerships in a numberofjoint initiatives to strengthen governance. It is an active participant in promoting the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials (1997), the Forest Law Enforcement and Governance Ministerial Processes (from 2001), the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (2002), and the
United Nations Convention against Corruption (2003). It works closely with several international anticorruption organizations and networks, including the Financial Action Task Force, the Partnership for Transparency Fund, the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC), and Transparency International. In fiscal 2007, the Bank collaborated with OECD-DAC Govnet to prepare an issues paperthat sets out an agenda for engaging in global collective action to improve poor governance, for conducting joint corruption assessments, and for leveraging comparative strengths for a coordinated response to addressing corruption. (See www.worldbank .org/governance and www.worldbank.org/integrity.)
THE STRATEGY FOR MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
The 79 IBRD-eligible countries, most ofthem middle-income countries, are home to more than 70 percent of the world’s population living on less than $2 a day. Improving assistance to these countries is thus critical to reducing poverty. For this reason, at its September 2006 Annual Meetings, the World Bank—with the encouragement of its shareholder governments—made a commitment to strengthening IBRD’s effectiveness in partnering with middle-income countries to achieve better development outcomes and to collectively address regional and global concerns.
Middle-income countries have substantially improved the quality of their economic management in recent years. Access to market-based financing and risk-management tools has increased, and sovereign financing costs have declined to nearall-time lows. But challenges remain. Capital market access remains concentrated in a few countries, and the cost of borrowing is typically much higher than that offered by multilateral development banks. Income inequality and large pockets of poverty persist, exacerbated by unevenness in access to education, physical infrastructure, and other public services. Many middle-income countries also face other persistent problems that cannot be solved in the short term. Solving these problems will require strengthening public institutions and improving the business environment and competitiveness of these countries.
Middle-income countries are repositories of extensive knowledge about and experience with development issues,
and they increasingly view themselves as partners, rather than as clients, of the Bank. Many promote development in other countries through foreign direct investment, bank lending, remittances, and even development assistance. Some contribute to IDA and may also partner in arrears clearance and debt-reduction exercises that benefit the world’s poorest countries.
Some middle-income countries are also playing an increasingly important role in the governance of the global economy, helping develop the global agenda on issues such as trade and climate change. Some are delivering global public goods: combating infectious diseases, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and preserving biodiversity.
Middle-income countries want the Bank to be more flexible and responsive; to offer a broader array of financing, risk-management, and credit-enhancement products; and to reduce turnaround times and transaction costs. Although lending and knowledge products have traditionally been offered together, these countries want more sharply focused and higher-quality knowledge services that are not tied to financing. They also want to make more extensive use of the Bank’s convening capacity and experience in framing strategy and assembling portfolios of expertise and finance from multiple sources to help address collective issues.
To meet client countries’ needs, the Development Committee strongly endorsed a new strategy crafted by the Bank that will improve performance in each of the Bank’s three business lines: knowledge services, financial services, and strategy and coordination services.
In knowledge services, the Bank is seeking to leverage its research and expert services at the sectoral, country, and global levels through project cycle work, analytic work, training, institutional capacity building, technical assistance, and other advisory activities. It is also seeking to engage closely with national think tanks and other international organizations on knowledge exchange.
In financial services, the Bank is considering a full menu of financing and credit-enhancement and risk-management tools that can be offered to sovereign and nonsovereign entities.
In strategy and coordination services, the Bank will continue to offer its convening capacity and global reach to support country strategy work, including policy dialogue and delivery of expertise to promote growth and reduce poverty, and to address the provision of priority global and regional public goods. (See www.worldbank.org/middleincomecountries.)
AFRICA
The past decade has witnessed growing diversity in income levels and growth across Africa. Sixteen countries grew by more than 4.5 percent a year over this period, and several of them (including Ghana, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda) also diversified their economies and exports. The fastest-growing group of non-oil-producing African countries, which together represent 36 percent of the population in Africa, grew at an average rate of 5.5 percent. In contrast, the
13	slowest-growing countries, which represent 20 percent of the region’s population, saw average growth of only 1.3 percent. Growth for the region as a whole reached an estimated 5.3 percent in 2006.
Solid growth has helped to improve human development outcomes, especially in primary education. Gross primary school enrollment rates in the region rose from 72 percent in 1991 to 96 percent in 2004. Health outcomes are more varied, but they, too, are improving in many countries, and progress in preventing and treating malaria and HIV/AIDS has accelerated.
Despite these positive signs, Africa is not growing rapidly enough to substantially reduce income poverty. The World
Bank is well positioned to mobilize private and public development finance to increase annual growth to 7 percent, the minimum necessary to have a significant impact on poverty reduction.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank is the largest provider of development assistance to Africa, with a record $5.8 billion in credits, grants, and guarantees in fiscal 2007. In total, the Bank approved 93 projects, up more than 20 percent from fiscal 2006. It also continued its nonlending activities, completing 194 analytic and advisory services. Sixteen African countries benefited from the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative in fiscal 2007, and another 17 will become eligible when they reach theircompletion points underthe Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (see "Debt Relief," chapter 3).
Over the past two years, the Bank’s strategy for assisting Africa has been implemented underthe Africa Action Plan (box 2.1). The plan-based on accelerating shared growth, building capable states, sharpening the focus on results, and
strengthening the development partnership—has already had positive impacts. For example, in fiscal 2007, Ghana and Tanzania were ranked among the top 10 countries reforming the climate for doing business; with Bank Group support, Madagascar moved up eight places in the global rankings for ease of starting a business. Such successes result primarily from strengthened commitment by African countries to reforms, as well as from strengthened collaboration among IDA, IFC, and MIGA in private sector development, infrastructure, and skills development.
Nearly 40 percent of Africa’s population lives in landlocked countries, many of which are also resource rich. The continent is also highly segmented geographically, and it has the highest density of countries of any developing region. Regional projects are therefore needed to close the infrastructure gap. The West Africa gas pipeline and the Eastern Africa Submarine Cable System — both of which are public-private partnerships supported by the Bank Group—are landmarks in regionalapproachesto relieving infrastructure bottlenecks. The Multi-Country AIDS Project for Africa, another Bank-supported regional program, operates in 31 African countries. It has reached 173 million people with
prevention messages and has helped prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS among 1.5 million women.
The Africa Catalytic Growth Fund (ACGF), which the World Bank established in March 2006, provides rapid, targeted support to countries with credible programs for accelerating growth, reducing poverty, and attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The fund is highly selective, focusing on a few countries at a time in which an infusion of capital can augment the impact of IDA assistance to produce results. The Trust Fund Agreement for the ACGF was signed in August 2006. Three projects were selected to begin in fiscal 2007. Each project falls within one of three work areas supported by ACGF-high-performing countries, transformation countries, and regional integration—and each addresses a hard-to-reach MDG—water supplyand sanitation in Mozambique, child mortality in Sierra Leone, and HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment in the Horn of Africa.
OUTLOOKFORAFRICA
African policies and institutional arrangements have improved substantially over the past decade, particularly in
In March 2007, the World Bank’s Executive Directors discussed an assessment of the first 18 months of implementing the Africa Action Plan. Progress was rated broadly satisfactory, with results appearing fasterthan expected in developing the private sector, closing the infrastructure gap, and addressing HIV/AIDS and malaria, areas in which the Bank Group has also increased its support.
Despite the plan’s general success, however, its impact would have been even greater if it had aimed to achieve fewer objectives and had focused more sharply on results. Going forward, the Bank will therefore concentrate on eight key “flagship” business lines: strengthening the private
sector, increasing the economic empowerment of women, building skills for increased competitiveness, raising agricultural productivity, improving access to and the reliability of clean energy, expanding and upgrading road networks and transit corridors, increasing access to safe waterand sanitation, and strengthening health systems to prevent and treat malaria and HIV/AIDS. The country-based model that guides IDA partnership efforts and country strategies will be strengthened. Three cross-cutting areas will support this effort: building more capable and accountable governments, improving environmental management, and strengthening the development partnership.
5%
macroeconomic management and trade policy, according to the World Bank’s Country Policy and institutional Assessment ratings. Africa now needs to sustain such gains by continuing to improve the policy environment, in particular by ensuring macroeconomic stability and improved market efficiency. Doing so will require greater openness to trade as well as the formation of strong market institutions. Removing behind-the-borderconstraints and establishing a procompetitive domestic business environment would enhance international competitiveness and strengthen domestic capacity to respond to the changing demands of the global economy (box 2.2).
African countries continue to benefit from increased aid effectiveness, in keeping with the March 2005 Paris Declaration. The declaration calls on all development partners to ensure that aid is coordinated among donors, that donor
agencies harmonize their requirements to minimize transaction costs, and that aid matches the country’s development needs. Countries have taken the lead in developing baselines and action plans for implementing the declaration with development partners.
Africa has shown that it can sustain shared economic growth. In supporting African governments and people, the World Bank continues to play a pivotal role in advocating the need to increase aid Hows to Africa and for African goods to have better access to world markets. The Bank will increase the leverage of IDA by using the Bank Group’s analytic skills and operational and country knowledge to identify areas in which an infusion of sequenced and predictable financing can help support results-oriented national programs. (See www.worldbank.org/afr]
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF NEW SOUTH-SOUTH CHANNELS OF TRADE AND INVESTMENT
Trade and investment Hows between Africa and Asia-South-South commerce—have risen dramatically since 2000. According to Africa's Silk Road, published by the World Bank in
2007,	Africa’s exports to Asia today are almost on parwith Africa’s traditional commerce with the United States and the European Union. Asia’s exports to Africa—which are increasing at a rate of about 18 percent a year—are growing more rapidly than exports to any other region. Asian foreign direct investment in Africa is also soaring.
With this newest phase in world trade and investment, Africans cannot afford to be left behind, especially if opportunities for trade and investment with traditional
partners continue to be limited. Trade between Africa and Asia’s two largest countries, China and India, represents an enormous opportunity because it involves far more than natural resources and is opening the way for Africa to become a competitive processor of goods and services to these countries. But for Africa to proactively seize these opportunities within the developing world, it is imperative that countries pursue rigorous reforms not only at their borders but, more important, “behind their borders.”
In particular, they must adopt reforms that strengthen domestic governance, foster competition among domestic businesses, and create flexible and mobile labor and capital markets.
Growth in the World Bank’s active client countries in the East Asia and Pacific region accelerated from 9 percent in 2005 to
9.5	percent in 2006. The most rapidly growing country in the region is China, which grew 10.7 percent in 2006—the fourth consecutive year it has grown more than 10 percent. Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Vietnam also grew rapidly, increasing theiroutput by 7.5—10.5 percent. Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand grew at more moderate but still healthy annual rates of 5-6 percent. Papua New Guinea and some of the Pacific Islands also saw a pickup in growth, in part as a result of higher commodity prices. Political or civil unrest undermined the outlook in Timor-Leste and Tonga.
Poverty continued to decline in the region, with the number of people living on less than $2 a day falling to 550 million in
2006,	or less than 30 percent of the region’s population. Since
2001,	the numberof people living below the $2-a-day line has been reduced by some 225 million, an even larger reduction than inthe previous "boom" of 1991-96.
The Bank’s strategy in the region is to support broad-based economic growth, promote trade and integration,
enhance the environment for good governance, increase social stability, and help countries achieve the MDGs. To meet these goals, the Bank approved $4 billion for the region in fiscal 2007, including $2.8 billion in IBRD loans and $1.2 billion in IDA credits and grants. Carbon Finance contracts totaling $29 million were signed in 2007.
IMPROVING GOVERNANCE AND THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
Groundbreaking work on governance and corruption continues in the East Asia and Pacific region, with an emphasis placed on building country capacity and strengthening public institutions. A $600 million development policy loan to Indonesia is allowing the government to deepen reforms in four main areas: macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness, public financial management and governance, the investment climate, and services for the poor. The operation brings together the World Bank, the government of Japan, and the Asian Development Bank around a common policy framework.
In the Philippines, a $250 million development policy loan supports the country’s significant achievements and further
actions in reducing public sector deficit and debt by strengthening tax administration, improving budget execution and fiduciary performance, and strengthening the finances of the power sector. This is the first development policy operation forthe Philippines in eight years.
In Indonesia, a second generation of measures is being developed to combat corruption at the sectoral and project levels. Underthe Strategic Roads Improvement Project, the Bank is working with the government to strengthen fiduciary safeguards; enhance coordination with government agencies, including the supreme audit and national anticorruption agencies; and introduce oversight by civil society groups.
In China, an Investment Climate Assessment of 120 cities found that cities vary widely in local governance, investment climate, and progress toward achieving a "harmonious society"—the objective of China’s 11th National Five-Year Plan. The report concluded that cities with the weakest investment climates stand to gain most by making their local governments more efficient, transparent, and investor friendly.
INVESTING IN HEALTH AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
The emergence of avian influenza in Southeast Asia in 2003 placed the region at the forefront of a global response to the disease. Vietnam, where the Bank assisted in developing the first Avian Influenza Emergency Response Project, continues to inform global practice with a second operation, the Avian and Human Influenza Controland Preparedness Project. In fiscal 2007, avian Hu projects were delivered for Indonesia and China using the Avian and Human Influenza Facility. Similar projects have been proposed for Cambodia and Mongolia.
The region is making good progress toward meeting the challenge of increasing access to basic education. In more rapidly growing Asian economies, such as Vietnam, the focus is on expanding tertiary education, which can increase competitiveness in the global economy.
PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The creation of the new Sustainable Development Vice Presidency underscores the Bank’s commitment to responding to client demand for more integrated assistance in
support of infrastructure, rural, and social development projects.
In natural resource management, the Guangxi Integrated Forestry Project in China aims to introduce sustainable management of forestry resources to a country that has significantly increased forest cover but continues to face
growing demand fortimber. The Renewable Energy forRural Access Project will help provide off-grid rural herders in Mongolia with access to regular and affordable electricity.
On climate change, the Carbon Finance portfolio, which grew rapidly in the past two years as a result of China’s participation, is supporting research and policy work across the region. One of the portfolio’s projects is in Kiribati — a low-lying Pacific Island state—where the Bank is working with the government to adapt to risks from storm surges and a rise in sea level. Ona larger scale, the study Sustainable Energyin China: The Closing Window of Opportunity proposes a path toward a comprehensive energy policy as the Chinese economy continues to grow and energy demand surges.
BUILDING PARTNERSHIPS
The Bank has strong relationships with other regional donors, including the Asian Development Bank, the Australian Agency for International Development, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, the government of the Netherlands, and the U.K. Department for International Development.
East Asia and Pacific is the largest regional user of trust funds in the World Bank, with a portfolio of $2.6 billion in fiscal 2007.
Multidonortrust funds have been successfully used to support reconstruction in Aceh following the 2004 tsunami, to
take measures against the spread of avian Hu, and to provide emergency relief and reconstruction assistance following the 2006 earthquake in Yogyakarta.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
In an innovative study released in August 2006, the World Bank highlighted the need to allow unskilled workers from the Pacific Islands greater access to seasonal employment in neighboring developed economies. The report advocates greater labor mobility in the Pacific Islands to help overcome the challenges of small economies, remoteness, growing youth populations, and lowjob growth. Following publication of the report, the government of New Zealand announced a temporary pilot labor mobility scheme with a number of Pacific Island countries.
To better involve youth in the development agenda, the Bank and more than 30 development partners—including UNICEF, local civil society organizations, and relevant government ministries—held Youth Open Space dialogue sessions across the region. Forums in Lao PDR, Mongolia, Papua NewGuinea, Singapore, Thailand, and Timor-Leste allowed young people, many of them from marginalized groups, to articulate their concerns and suggest approaches to development that they see as relevant and workable. (See www.worldbank.org/eap]
SOUTH ASIA
Rapid economic growth and progress in human development have raised the possibility that the region with the greatest number of poor people could end mass poverty within a generation. Following domestic reforms and external assistance, gross domestic product (GDP) in South Asia has grown an average of nearly 6 percent a yearfor the past decade. Growth in the two largest countries, India and Pakistan, reached 7 percent in the past two years. In 2006, GDP in South Asia is estimated to have expanded at the very rapid pace of
8.2	percent.
With growth has come an impressive reduction in poverty. During the 1990s, poverty rates fell 7 percent in India, 9 percent in Bangladesh, and 11 percent in Nepal. Pakistan’s poverty rate declined 5 percent in the first half of this decade. But to end poverty in a generation, South Asian economies must sustain an economic growth rate of 8-10 percent a year.
South Asia still has some of the worst human deprivation in the world. Levels of child malnutrition in India are nearly twice those in Africa. In Pakistan, one child in ten dies before the age of five, and only one in three completes primary
school. About one person in five in South Asia lacks access to water services, and some two-thirds lack access to sanitation.
But perhaps the most fundamental challenge is the need for improved governance. Several South Asian countries sufferfrom endemic corruption, with Bangladesh scoring nearthe bottom of Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index for the past six years. Weak governance and corruption-reflected, for example, in high levels of teacher absenteeism or rampant procurement problems at power plants—are key bottlenecks to human development and growth. Confrontational and often personality-based politics plague Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and some Indian states, sometimes to the point of political violence. In parts of Afghanistan, Nepal, and Pakistan, conflict between state and nonstate actors plays out regularly.
The World Bank is working closely with partner countries to strengthen their core governance processes and institutions at the country level as well as to strengthen governance and anticorruption at the sector level; it is also strengthening risk mitigation in Bank-financed operations.
While all the country strategies in the region cover governance and anticorruption to varying degrees, the strategy for Bangladesh stands out in making governance a core, cross-cutting theme that is integrated into all of the Bank’s work in the country.
Although the challenges facing South Asia can seem daunting, the region’s ability to grow and to reduce poverty suggests that they can be overcome, and the World Bank is well equipped to support that effort (see box 2.3).
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The Bank approved nearly $5.6 billion for South Asia in fiscal
2007,	with $1.6 billion in loansfrom IBRD and $4 billion in IDA commitments, including $445 million in grants.
A new interim strategy note for Nepal was discussed by the Bank’s Executive Directors in fiscal 2007. The strategy emphasizes flexibility in helping Nepalis respond to historic opportunities in the transition to peace.
During fiscal 2007, the Bank continued its support for rural development, education, and health. Girls, members of formerly low-caste groups, and ethnic minorities in Nepal will benefit froma $60 million grantforthe Second Higher Education Project. The Bank also supported India’s health sectorwith $672 million to improve reproductive and child health services, reduce mortality and morbidity from tuberculosis, and increase the use of essential health services in Karnataka. It also continued its support of India’s efforts to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS with a $250 million credit for the Third National HIV/AIDS Control Project. The project will assist the government in increasing prevention, care, and treatment interventions nationwide.
In conflict-ridden Sri Lanka, a new project will meet housing needs, provide safe drinking water and sanitation, improve drainage facilities, and regularize land titles for the
60,000	internally displaced people currently living in refugee camps. In Pakistan, a recently approved Bank project aims to improve the security of land tenure, which will increase access to land and credit, especially for the poor, whose rights remain largely unprotected.
Besides lending, a strong component of the Bank’s strategy is its analytic and advisory work. A recent report on Afghanistan’s poppy economy concluded that actions against
drug traffickers have been marred by corruption and have failed to prevent the consolidation of the drug industry around fewer, more powerful, and politically connected actors. The Bank also undertook a regional HIV/AIDS study, a report on progress toward reaching the MDGs in Bangladesh, and a study on access to finance in Nepal.
BUILDING THE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENT
The 2006 edition of Doing Businessin South Asia covered all eight countries in the region as well as major cities in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan. Although doing business became easier in the region’s two largest countries—lndia and Pakistan—no other South Asian economies improved business regulations in 2005-06, causing the region to place last in the pace of global reforms.
The World Bank is working to address deficiencies in the region’s investment climate, such as weak infrastructure, excessive regulation, and corruption. In Afghanistan, the Bank provided a $25 million grant to improve the country’s investment climate and infrastructure facilities in key sectors such as electricity, water, and telecommunications. In Bangladesh, the Bank gave a $40 million credit to support the government’s plans to transform Bangladesh Railway into a well-managed, customer-focused organization.
Progress continues in reforming infrastructure policies in South Asia. India is reforming its port and road systems using $8 billion in public-private partnerships. The Bank supported this agenda in Punjab with a $250 million loan forthe rehabilitation and expansion of the road network.
FOSTERING PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT
The World Bank’s approach to participation in South Asia is to empower community groups to make development decisions, direct resources, and play a role in projects that affect them. The emphasis is on equity and the inclusion of poorer regions, communities, and households in development projects.
Underthe Pakistan PovertyAlleviation Fund, some 10,000 community infrastructure projects have been completed that touch the lives of more than 2.5 million people in about 5,000 villages. More than half of these projects provide safe drinking water or access to sanitation. In fiscal 2007, the fund received additional financing of $138 million to address housing
reconstruction in areas devastated by the earthquake that struck on October8, 2005.
In Afghanistan, the Bank approved a $120 million grant forthe Second National Solidarity Program, a community-led reconstruction and rural infrastructure initiative that has reached about 14 million rural people—74- percent of Afghanistan’s rural population—since its inception in 2002. More than 9,000 community development committees have received block grants to fund about 17,000 projects in water supply and sanitation, irrigation, rural energy, livelihoods, and transport infrastructure at the village level.
In India and Pakistan, the Bank is supporting livelihood programs that provide microfinance and self-employment
opportunitiesto millions of poorwomen. InAndhra Pradesh, India, Bank-funded projects have helped some 8 million women build incomes, improve living standards, and even gain political influence by banding together in some 630,000 self-help groups. A similar operation—the $63 million Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project—was approved in fiscal 2007. The project is designed to support the social and economic empowerment of rural poor people in the state and is expected to directly benefit about 2.9 million people. (See www .worldbank.org/sar]
South Asia is sitting on a rich potential source of growth: regional integration. Increasing integration within the least integrated region in the world could yield huge benefits for its people. Annualtrade between India and Pakistan, currently estimated at $1 billion, could potentially reach $9 billion. Unfortunately, progress on trade integration within South Asia has been slow. While it continues to make the case for more open trade in goods and services within the subcontinent, especially with private sector entities such as national federations of chambers of commerce and industry, the World Bank is also focusing on regional cooperation in energy and water, where the win-win benefits are likely to be even higher
The Independent Evaluation Group’s review of the Bank’s regional programs around the world found that they have the
potential to deliver big development results, yet account for less than 1 percent of total lending and are not closely linked to country programs. The IEG noted that the Bank has been effective in fostering country interest in regional programs and in mobilizing resources, but has been less so in helping countries resolve conflicting interests and plan for the sustainability of programs after external support ends. A more strategic approach will help countries identify the regional approaches of greatest promise and will strengthen the international aid architecture in support of multicountry efforts. Greater support for these programs, coupled with the application of the lessons of experience, could have a strong development impact.
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
The Europe and Central Asia region has largely succeeded in overcoming the early challenges of transition. In 2006, most countries experienced solid economic growth, with the region as a whole growing by a robust 7.3 percent. Oil revenues were a major driver of growth in Azerbaijan (34.5 percent) and Kazakhstan (10.6 percent), while Armenia grew 13.4 percent thanks to the implementation of an ambitious reform agenda.
Structural reforms in most countries have driven the region’s continuing success. According to the 2007 Doing Business survey, Europe and Central Asia was the best-reforming region in the world forthe third consecutive year, and three of its countries—Croatia, Georgia, and Romania— wereamongthetop 10 performers (box 2.4). Integration with the European Union (EU) has been key to the reform process in many of the region’s countries. Bulgaria and Romania joined the EU in January 2007, bringing the number of member countries to 27. Slovenia joined the Euro Area as the bloc’s 13th member state, and reforms motivated by integration led Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, and Lithuania to graduate from IBRD in fiscal 2007, meaning that these countries have grown from
being beneficiaries of international assistance to becoming active partners in development cooperation.
Despite strong growth the region faces difficult challenges, including large income disparities within countries; rapidly aging and declining populations; persistent youth unemployment; lack of scientific and technical innovation; and weak public and corporate governance, especially in low-income countries. Rapid growth is increasing vulnerability to macroeconomic imbalances. Driven to different degrees by soaring private demand and credit expansion, higher oil prices, and buoyant capital Hows, current account deficits in a number of countries have increased those countries’ vulnerability to sudden reversals in market sentiment. Several regional currencies have appreciated as a result of the large influx of external funds (including remittances) and banking system borrowing. This appreciation, if not accompanied by productivity growth, will reduce competitiveness. Countries must also work to mitigate the threats posed by HIV/AIDS, drug addiction, human trafficking, natural disasters, and environmental degradation.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank delivered $3.8 billion in lending in fiscal 2007 ($3.3 billion from IBRD and $422 million from IDA). Lending is down slightly from fiscal 2006 levels because of political uncertainty in several countries. In addition, a significant number of advisory and analytic products were delivered:
100 economic and sector reports and policy notes and a further 84 technical assistance activities.
A substantial amount of World Bank assistance is channeled through policy-based lending, technical assistance, and sector programs on regional core issues—migration and remittances, demography, labor mobility, governance, and innovation and technology absorption. The World Bank is also engaged in supporting the transition of countries such as the Russian Federation and the new EU members from being recipients of World Bank assistance to becoming donors.
In orderto work across this diverse set of countries, the Bank offers both traditional and innovative product lines. In IDA countries, the Bank continues to be a vital development partner. The $1,012.5 million it has provided to Armenia since 1991 was crucial in propelling the country out of severe economic paralysis after Soviet rule. Extraordinarily rapid growth—of about 10 percent a year over the past decade—has helped Armenia reduce the number of poor people from more than 55 percent at the beginning of the transition to about 30 percent today. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, IDAworked with the European Commission and other donors to mobilize unprecedented levels of assistance for the war-torn country. IDA supported the country’s reconstruction with about $1 billion in investments. It also acted as a catalyst and facilitator, bringing together different local parties for joint projects and endeavors. In this way, IDA has contributed not only to the implementation of specific projects but also more generally to social reconciliation within the country.
In middle-income countries, the Bank Group is providing integrated product lines based on client demand, as many of these countries are increasingly moving from borrower to donor status and from knowledge receiver to knowledge provider. A Joint Economic Research Program with Kazakhstan, for example, has been expanded to include project preparation support on a cost-sharing basis. In Russia, the World Bank provided technical assistance on
a fee-for-service basis to a public-private partnership that collaborated on a tolled motorway project in St. Petersburg. Meanwhile, the Bank’s engagement in subsovereign lending in the country has drawn strong support from federal and regional authorities for strengthening the capacity of regional and municipal actors to manage theirfinancial affairs and promote private sector development.
TACKLING CORE ISSUES
The Bank’s analytic work is increasing knowledge and sparking debate on high-priority development topics through in-depth studies and advisory activities on such crucial issues as employment, trade, regional labor migration, and corruption. The most recent flagship report, Migration and Remittances: Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union, shows that migration within and from the transition economies of Europe and Central Asia has been significant and will likely continue to increase. The report, which focuses on circular migration patterns, also looks at migration policies in the region and makes recommendations for improving them.
Governance and corruption continue to be top concerns in the region. To help policy makers address these problems, World Bank experts conduct enterprise surveys to gauge perceptions of corruption. What they have found is encouraging. The report Anticorruptionin Transition 3: Whois Succeeding... and Why reveals that extensive reforms are reducing the opportunities for corruption and are showing real results in many countries, with firms reporting a reduction in both the size of bribes and the frequency of bribery. Still, corruption is not receding in all countries or across all sectors, and even the most successful reformers tend to have higher levels of corruption than exist in Western Europe. The Bank supports regional governments in reinforcing and accelerating the reform process within the framework of its governance and anticorruption strategy.
The Bank’s annual Knowledge Economy Forum is supporting countries in Europe and CentralAsia intheirtransitionto becoming increasingly knowledge-based. Improving knowledge, innovation, and technology absorption is vital if the region is to reduce the competitive gap with Western Europe, the United States, and South and East Asia. While the region benefits from a strong science and technology tradition that
should offer a key comparative advantage, that capacity does not translate into innovation. With average spending on research and development under 1 percent of GDP in most ofthe region-well below the European Union’starget of 3 percent—the existing innovation infrastructure is inefficient and underused and is not targeting private sector needs.
THE WAY FORWARD
Looking ahead, countries in the region still face challenging development agendas, and the World Bank will provide assistance in a number of areas. The Bank’s support to new and candidate EU countries is expected to focus on the convergence agenda against the backdrop of demographic
changes (aging, youth employment, and migration) as well as issues associated with productivity growth and financial sustainability. In the rest of the region, the Bank will focus broadly on helping move the poorer countries to middle-income status and on supporting countries that are no longer eligible for IDA financing but lack the necessary creditworthiness to borrow at nonconcessional terms (gap countries). It will also help countries face the unique challenges of resource wealth (such as "Dutch Disease"). At the regional level, the Bank will focus on financial systems, climate change, and communicable diseases, and it will help societies take advantage of globalization. (See www .worldbank.org/eca]
According to Doing Business 2007:Howto Reform, Georgia was the world’s number one reformer in 2006. It reduced the minimum capital required to start a new business from about $850 to about $85, it increased business registrations by 20 percent, it simplified border procedures, and it reduced the number of days needed to meet all administrative requirements for export from 54 days in 2004 to 13 in 2006.
Romania, the runner-up, simplified the procedures for obtaining building permits, set up a single office to process applications, reduced the time required to obtain construction documents by 49 days, adopted new labor regulations allowing term contracts to extend up to six years, and eased trade across borders.
LATIN AMERICAAND THE CARIBBEAN
Latin America and the Caribbean grew 5.4 percent in 2006, continuing the trend of the past three years, which have seen the highest growth rates since the late 1970s. This recovery has been accompanied by strong job creation, and most countries are taking advantage of the good times to reduce macroeconomic vulnerabilities. Growth of 4.7 percent is expected in 2007 as a result of an anticipated slowdown in the global economy and a likely decline in the price of some commodities. There is cautious optimism about longer-term growth prospects.
The region continues to struggle with the challenge of ensuring both that growth accelerates and that its benefits reach the poorest citizens. Inequality in this mainly middle-income region is among the highest in the world, with the richest 10 percent of the population holding 41 percent of total income and the poorest 10 percent owning just 1 percent. Poverty reduction has stagnated, with 47 million people in the region-more than 8 percent of the population-still living in extreme poverty.
World Bank financing for Latin America and the Caribbean reached $4.6 billion in fiscal 2007. It consisted of $4.4 billion
in IBRD lending, $132 million in IDA credits, and $68 million in IDA grants. Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Peru were the largest borrowers, receiving Bank lending of $3.6 billion for
26	projects in areas such as public health, infrastructure, education, and rural development. Haiti reached the decision point of the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in fiscal 2007, thereby qualifying for about $212.9 million in debt relief (see "Debt Relief," chapter3).
TAILORING ASSISTANCE TO THE REGION’S DIVERSE NEEDS
The World Bank has adapted its regional strategy to meet the increasingly diverse and sophisticated needs of its partner countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. For middle-income countries, the Bank offers an integrated package of services, including analysis and advice, country dialogue, financing, and implementation support. For IDA countries, the Bank provides concessional financing, donor coordination, and specialized support for fragile states.
In Mexico, in response to a shift in demand, the Bank adjusted its partnership strategy from provision of traditional lending services to provision of nonlending products such as
policy analysis and grants for environmental projects. It also found new ways to support subnational governments. In Bolivia, Haiti, and Honduras-low-income countries facing specific challenges—the Bank’s new strategies will support programs to strengthen economic governance, create jobs for the poor, and improve basic services.
BOOSTING GROWTH AND JOB CREATION
To achieve high and sustainable growth and create employment, the region needs to stimulate investment and remain globally competitive. Priorities for Bank support therefore include improving the business climate, deepening financial systems, diversifying export structures, and encouraging innovation.
New lending in fiscal 2007 included a $300 million loan to Colombia to promote business productivity and investment, a $207 million loan to Colombia to improve transport systems in medium and large cities, a $200 million loan to Argentina to help unemployed and poorworkers acquire the skills they need to find jobs, and a $200 million loan to Peru to help improve fiscal management. In Brazil, the Bank helped the state of Minas Gerais achieve a majorfiscal turnaround, an experience that is being studied and adapted by other Brazilian states.
Key to the region’s competitiveness is improved infrastructure, an area in which the Bank provided $1.7 billion in fiscal
2007.	As part of an expanded investment partnership with Argentina, the Bank approved approximately $0.7 billion in loans to improve road infrastructure across the country.
Research in fiscal 2007 addressed key concerns of citizens in the region, such as job security, poverty, and crime and violence. A report on informality in Latin America examined the nature of the informal sector and its implications for workers, firms, and policy makers. A study on remittances found that for each 1 percent increase in remittances as a share of GDP, the fraction of the population living in poverty falls by a modest 0.4 percent. A report on the region’s response to the growth of China and India found that competition from Asia has a positive effect on the region as a whole despite adverse effects on some countries and industries. Another report identified the economic impacts of crime and violence on countries in the Caribbean and suggested policy
responses. Research on competitiveness in Mexico contributed to the debate on "Equity and Competition for High Growth in Mexico," a conference cosponsored by Harvard University.
REDUCING POVERTYAND INEQUALITY
Creating equal opportunities for all citizens is crucial to achieving faster poverty reduction in Latin America and the Caribbean. Therefore, the World Bank is working with countries across the region to develop universal and affordable social protection; to support programs that reduce poverty directly; and to increase access to education, health, and public infrastructure.
Major new lending in fiscal 2007 included a $300 million loan to Argentina to expand the government’s health care program, Plan Nacer, which is helping reduce infant mortality by increasing access to basic health services for uninsured mothers and children. A $200 million loan to Colombia is helping to extend health insurance coverage to 13.7 million poor people and to provide access to nutrition programs for 400,000 children. A $150 million development policy loan in Peru will help define standards and set goals in primary education, health, and nutrition so that families can better measure their children’s progress. The program builds on the recommendations of the Bank’s RECURSO report, which fostered a lively debate about the need for greater accountability in the social sectors during the run-up to Peru’s presidential elections.
The World Bank is also supporting equal opportunities at the local level. A Bank-sponsored workshop on child malnutrition in Central America, for example, stimulated debate on improving the results of community-based child nutrition programs. The most impressive gains were achieved in the Atlantic region, a poor region with a large indigenous population.
STRENGTHENING GOVERNANCE
The World Bank is helping countries in Latin America develop effective and sustainable ways to promote good governance and reduce corruption through support for strengthening country systems, improving accountability for service delivery, and monitoring and evaluating results. In Guatemala, the Bank is supporting the government’s efforts to make public procurement and financial management more transparent and efficient with a $100 million development policy loan.
In Honduras, the Bank is helping improve accountability for health care delivery through decentralized clinics and performance-based contracts.
TACKLING GLOBAL ISSUES
Countries in Latin America and the Caribbean are increasingly playing a leadership role in efforts to address issues
such as climate change, renewable energy, and global health threats. World Bank assistance in this area took a variety of forms in fiscal 2007. The active portfolio supporting countries’ efforts to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS totaled $150.1 million in 13 projects. The Bank prepared a report on biofuels for Brazil and coordinated with other international and regional agencies to prepare for a possible avian flu epidemic. It worked with local partners to create the world’s first multicountry catastrophe insurance pool in the Caribbean, the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, which will help participating countries recover more quickly from hurricanes and earthquakes. And it provided $23.2 million in IDAfundingto help poorer Caribbean states participate in the facility.
To address the challenge of environmental sustainability in the region, the World Bank is supporting both country-specific projects and international initiatives. In Colombia, the Bank provided a $200 million loan to help address environmental issues affecting the urban poor in general and children underfive in particular. In Mexico and Central America, the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor is helping raise income levels for local communities, many of which are indigenous, while preserving the region’s unique biodiversity. (See www.worldbank.org/lac.)
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Growth in the Middle East and North Africa was robust in 2006, with real GDP rising 6.3 percent. This extraordinary growth—the strongest in more than 10 years—occurred despite the difficult conditions affecting many countries, particularly the conflict-affected areas of Iraq, Lebanon, and the West Bank and Gaza. Strong oil revenues and the ongoing European recovery provided the momentum for growth, allowing per capita GDP to rise 4.2 percent despite large increases in the population. Sustaining growth at current rates will depend primarily on advances in the structural reform agenda and on a more even distribution of resources to reduce the high vulnerability to poverty.
The overall environment for business in the region improved during fiscal 2007 as a result of reforms undertaken in several countries, including the Arab Republic of Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco. Despite some initial steps toward public administration and civil service reforms, however, governance remains a challenge, and the participation of civil society, including parliamentarians, remainsweak.
Job creation in the private sector is increasing, but large differences exist across the region, with unemployment
declining in some countries and rising in others. Women and youth continue to be overrepresented among the unemployed. Employment rates for women and youth average about 47 percent, the lowest in the world (box 2.5).
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank approved nearly $692 million in IBRD loans and $216 million in IDA commitments forthe region. In addition, the Bank provided $85 million in special financing to Lebanon and to the West Bank and Gaza; Iraq received $100.5 million in grants from the Iraq Trust Fund. Knowledge services and policy advice continue to represent a significant portion ofthe Bank’ssupportforthe region. Synergies within the World Bank Group and partnerships with civil society, the private sector, and other development partners continue to play a key role in the Bank’s effectiveness.
The Bank’s regional strategy addresses five key areas: governance, private sector development, water, education, and inclusion.
IMPROVING GOVERNANCE
World Bank support to governance and anticorruption programs in fiscal 2007 was $59.8 million. In addition to lending, governance support was provided through recipient-executed trust funds and reimbursable technical assistance to strengthen public sector management and fiduciary systems in Algeria, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen; improve results monitoring in Algeria and Jordan; and build capacity in procurement in Djibouti, Tunisia, and the West Bank and Gaza.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Across the region, the World Bank continued its efforts to improve the investment climate and increase trade competitiveness. In Egypt, Bank-supported reform ofthe business environment resulted in the creation of a "one-stop shop" at the GeneralAuthority for Investment. By bringing together 20 government entities under one roof, the time and cost of obtaining licenses for investment projects is reduced in order to match international best practices and thereby boost investment. The Bank is also supporting the privatization of banks in Egypt. In Morocco, the Bank is supporting financial sector reforms. In the Republic of Yemen, where Bank support encouraged adoption of the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative guidelines and enactment of a good-practice procurement law, the Bank is providing technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework against corruption.
The Bank is also supporting key infrastructure to enable private sector development, especially in energy. In Morocco, energy sector reform was supported by a $100 million energy
About 60 percent of the population in the Middle East and North Africa is under age 24. Despite declining fertility rates, the region will continue to have one of the highest percentages of youth in the world.
The Bank is addressing the challenges and opportunities posed by these demographics in several ways. In fiscal 2007, it completed "Voices of Youth, ’’ which interviewed young people in Egypt, Morocco, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen. Young people expressed their concerns about the quality of education and training and their rele-
vance to the needs of employers. They also indicated their desire for meaningful political and social participation.
The Bank intensified its efforts to address the needs of youth in a multisectoral manner. In fiscal 2007, its lending program funded projects in Egypt, Jordan, and Tunisia that focused on entrepreneurship, training, employment, and higher education. The Bank is also preparing a youth policy note for the region that identifies current gaps, sets priorities, and makes policy recommendations for mainstreaming the youth agenda across sectors.
development policy loan. Iraq’s severe power shortages were addressed by a $124 million project in the south and a $40 million hydropower project in the Kurdish region.
STRENGTHENING WATER MANAGEMENT
Private sector participation is one of the main thrusts for World Bank Group assistance in the sector. In Egypt, the $145 million West Delta project is supporting a partnership alternative with the private sector to manage scarce water resources more efficiently. The Bank is also supporting crossborder cooperation on water management through support to the Nile Basin Initiative, the Arab Water Council, and the Arab Water Management Institute. In February 2007, the Bank released the study Making the Most ofScarcity, which emphasizes options for improving water management and services. (See www.worldbank.org/mna.)
EDUCATION AND INCLUSION
The World Bank’s approach in the Middle East and North Africa focuses on empowering communities to play a more effective role in supporting development, particularly women’s economic rights and opportunities. The Bank is financing several community-driven projects, including the Municipal Infrastructure Project in Lebanon and three projects in the
West Bank and Gaza that focus on rehabilitating municipal services, strengthening the capacity of nongovernmental organizations (box 2.6), and empowering community-based networks to support the sustainability of service delivery.
The Bank is providing policy advice to strengthen and improve the targeting of social safety nets in Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Republic of Yemen. In Tunisia, the Bank is supporting higher education reform with a $76 million loan. In Jordan, the World Bank completed the $34 million Higher Education Development Project to improve the quality, relevance, and efficiency of higher education. In Morocco, the Bank approved a $100 million IBRD loan to finance the National Initiative for Human Development Support Project, which supports access of vulnerable groups to social and economic services and promotes inclusiveness, accountability, and transparency of local decision-making and implementation processes.
In Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, the Bank is collaborating with IFC to expand women’s economic opportunities through business networking and training. In Iraq, the Bank is assessing the viability of implementing microfinance initiatives that would benefit and support the needs of households headed by women, particularly low-income women.
As social conditions deteriorated in the West Bank and Gaza, access to critical public services was significantly impacted, and NGOs (nongovernmental organizations) stepped in to meet basic needs. In December 2006, the Executive Directors approved the Third Palestinian NGO Project, continuing the Bank’s decade-long strategic partnership with Palestinian NGOs. The project aims to build the capacity of Palestinian NGOs by focusing on issues of good governance, accountability, and transparency and by helping them empower and
mentor community-based institutions so that these institutions can better respond to the needs of vulnerable groups on a sustainable basis and can become reliable platforms for leveraging funds from other donors. A participatory monitoring and evaluation system is being set up as a critical feature of the project. The system will track and document the How and use of funds, the efficiency and effectiveness of utilization, responsiveness to priority needs, and the impact on recipients.
WORLD BANKLENDING
The World Bank mobilizes financing from member shareholder equity by borrowing from international capital markets (for IBRD) and by allocating grants and credits using contributions from richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources to benefit poor people in borrowing member countries.
Lending is tailored to individual country needs and utilizes lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible. Figures 3.1-3.3 and table 3.1 summarize combined IBRD-IDA lending in fiscal 2007.
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES The Role of IDA
IDA is the largest source of concessional financial assistance forthe world’s poorest countries. In fiscal 2007, countries with annual per capita income of up to $1,025 were eligible for IDA assistance. IDA also supports some countries, including several small island economies, that are above the income cutoff but lack the creditworthiness needed to borrow from IBRD. Since its inception, IDA has provided assistance in the form of highly concessional credits. Since fiscal 2003, it has expanded its use of grants, which are used to finance projects in the countries that are most vulnerable to debt.
IDA assistance helps recipient countries address complex challenges. Priorities include promoting growth and reducing poverty; enhancing public sector governance and transparency; helping countries recoverfrom conflict; developing infrastructure; improving the quality of basic education and poor people’s access to it; strengthening the fight against HIV/AIDS, avian flu, and other communicable diseases; and building a healthy investment climate as a prerequisite for private sector investment. IDA financing is not earmarked to specific sectors orthemes: it responds to the priorities and needs as identified by recipient countries themselves. The amount of IDA resources a country receives depends largely on various performance factors, which are assessed annually.
The poverty reduction strategy (PRS) approach is keyto the Bank’s support for low-income countries. PRSs are country-authored, results-oriented, comprehensive road maps that articulate a country’s development priorities and then specify the steps necessary to address them. The PRS approach empowers governments to set their own priorities (and to be accountable forthe results) and it encourages donors to provide predictable, harmonized assistance aligned with those priorities. Fifty-four countries have prepared national PRSs, and 41 of them have also produced at least one annual progress report. Twelve countries (Burkina Faso, Ghana, the Kyrgyz Republic, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua,
Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, and Vietnam) prepared their second full national PRSs; many others are in the process of doing so.
IDACommitments
IDA commitments in fiscal 2007 reached $11.9 billion. This funding, including $9.6 billion in credits, $2.2 billion in grants, and $0.1 billion in guarantees, supported 189 operations. The volume of IDA commitments was 25 percent higherthan in fiscal 2006 and the highest in IDA’s history. Figures 3.4--3.8 summarize IDA lending.
The largest share of IDA resources was committed to Africa, which received a record $5.8 billion, or 49 percent of total IDA commitments. South Asia ($4 billion) and East Asia and Pacific ($1.2 billion) also received large shares of total funding. India ($2.3 billion), Pakistan ($0.9 billion), and Nigeria ($0.8 billion) were the largest single recipients of funding.
Among sectors, the largest share of commitments went to Law and Justice and Public Administration, which received $2.7 billion in funding (23 percent of the total). IDA has become a major source of financing for infrastructure (see figure 3.8), a sectorwhose share in total official development assistance Hows has declined in recent years despite enormous need. Significant support was also provided to the Health and Other Social Services ($1.9 billion) and Education ($1.6 billion) sectors.
The themes receiving the most funding were Human Development ($2.6 billion) and Public Sector Governance ($1.8 billion). Major attention was also paid to Rural Development ($1.7 billion); Financial and Private Sector Development ($1.7 billion); Urban Development ($980 million); Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion ($919 million); and Social Protection and Risk Management ($896 million).
IDA Resources
IDA is financed by its own resources and by donor governments (figure 3.9). It also receives annual transfers from IBRD net income and, forthe first time in fiscal 2007, it received a grant from IFC to support private sector development in IDA countries.
Every three years, donor governments and representatives of borrower countries meet to discuss IDA’s policies and priorities and to agree on the amount of new resources required to fund its lending program over the following three years. Historically, the major industrial nations have been the largest contributors to IDA, but donor nations also include developing countries and transition economies—some of them current IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers.
The 14th replenishment of IDA (IDA14-) willfund commitments forfiscal years 2006-08. During this period, IDA expects to provide concessional financing commitments of 22.2 billion special drawing rights (SDRs) to eligible countries (the equivalent of about $32.5 billion). During fiscal 2007, this amount increased from the original IDA14- framework of SDR 21.9 billion (about $32.1 billion) as the result of an additional transferto IDA of SDR 0.2 billion (about $0.3 billion) from the IBRD surplus and the designation for grants of SDR 0.1 billion (about $0.15 billion) from IFC’s retained earnings. Total IDA14 resources forfinancing commitments consistofSDR12.1 billion (about $17.7 billion) in new donor contributions (excluding the structuralfinancing gap); SDR 8.7 billion (about $12.7 billion) in internal resources, consisting primarily of repayments of principal from past credits and investment income; SDR
1.3	billion (about $1.9 billion) in IBRD net income transfers, subject to annual approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors; and SDR0.1 billion (about $0.15 billion) in grants from IFC. With the implementation ofthe Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
a.	IDA internal resources include principal repayments, charges less administrative expenses, and investment income. For IDA14, this amount includes principal repayments that are no longer available due to IDA's implementation of the MDRI as of July 1, 2006. These lost reflows will be replaced by additional donor contributions under the MDRI replenishment.
b.	Includes structural financing gap.
(MDRI), some internal resources are no longer available and will be replaced by donor contributions under the MDRI replenishment. Underthe MDRI, donors have committed to providing additional resources of SDR 25 billion (about $37 billion) over 40 years to ensure that IDA’s future financial support for poor countries is not reduced as a result of debt cancellation.
Negotiationsforthe 15th replenishmentoflDA(IDA15) were launched in Paris in March 2007. The main issues under discussion included the global aid architecture, IDA’s performance-based allocation system, and IDA’s financial position (box 3.1).
Debt Relief
To date, IDA has provided about $4 billion underthe Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, the process through which heavily indebted poor countries can gain debt relief from their external creditors to bring their debts down to the HIPC threshold levels, and $28 billion in debt forgiveness under the MDRI, which was introduced in 2006 and built on the HIPC Initiative. In aggregate, IDA will provide about $18 billion under HIPC and $36 billion under MDRI. To help countries maintain debt sustainability, IDA has developed a system forallocating grants based on countries’ risk of debt distress. This approach, also adopted by some other multilateral development banks, helps mitigate the risk of debt distress in the future. IDA also works with partners to support countries’ management of their external debts.
FragileStates
The past three years have seen increasing international interest in strengthening donorengagement in and response to challenges facing fragile states (figure 3.10). In 2002, the Bank’s Task Force on Low-income Countries Under Stress (LICUS), in its fi nal report, recommended the need for stronger political analysis, innovative operational approaches, closer donor partnerships, and a series of institutional reforms to improve the Bank’s responsiveness. Since then, the Bank has made significant advances in deepening its understanding of the particular challenges facing these fragile states and in developing a differentiated approach to strengthen its support and assistance. The Bank has recently adopted a framework for rapid response in crises and emergencies (see page 15), which is supported by organization and staffing measures designed to ensure greaterfield presence and to mobilize the most experienced people across the institution to advance the fragile states agenda.
In 2006, the Bank provided intensive strategic and operational support to country programs facing crises or new opportunities. The emphasis was on bridging operational gaps in programs in Afghanistan, the Central African Republic, and the Democratic Republic of Congo and on supporting strategyformulation in Liberia, Sudan, and Timor-Leste.
The LICUS trust fund, established in March 2004 through a $25 million transfer from IBRDsurplus, targets the most
marginalized and fragile states in nonaccrual status. The Bank replenished the LICUS trust fund with $25 million in 2006 and with another$30 million in January 2007.
The Bank has maintained old and created new relationships, including partnerships with the UN system, the new UN Peace-Building Commission, and the Organisation for
0
IDA is a revolving fund in which donor contributions are complemented by reflows from IDA’s highly concessional credits. IDA provides $10 billion to $11 billion a year in interest-free loans and grants. It needs additional resources to maintain this level of financial support for poor countries, particularly since debt relief has reduced IDA’s available credit reflows, thus increasing the reliance of both IDA and poorcountries on future donorcontributions.
Adequate replenishment of IDA is critical because of the enormity of the challenges facing the 2.5 billion people who live in IDA-recipient countries. These countries face a variety of conditions—some are emerging from conflict, some are in the midst of economic transition, some are vulnerable to crisis, and some are experiencing rapid and sustained growth. IDA’s ability to address the complex and diverse needs of these countries can help them achieve their development goals.
IDA donors convened in Paris in March 2007 and in Maputo in July 2007 to discuss IDA’s 15th replenishment. During the negotiations, they identified three special themes for further discussion. The first is the role of IDA in the global aid architecture at the sectoral, country, regional, and global levels, including its support for debt sustainability. The second is the effectiveness of IDA’s assistance at the country level, including analysis of resource allocation and development outcomes, achievement and measurement of results, and progress in harmonizing and aligning assistance. The third encompasses IDA’s strategy, instruments, and operational response in supporting fragile states; its financing for fragile states; and a systematic approach to arrears clearance. Two more meetings will be held to discuss the 15th replenishment, at which donors will be expected to confirm theircontributions.
Economic Co-operation and Development’s Development Assistance Committee (OECD-DAC), to address the need for integrated approaches in fragile and conflict-affected countries. The Bank continues to cochair and actively participate in meetings of the OECD-DAC Fragile States Group.
The Bank also continues to invest in increasing the stock of knowledge on fragile states. In 2006, this investment resulted in two reports: Aid that Works: Successful Developmentin Fragile States, published in December 2006, and The Economic Impact ofPeacekeeping, published in March 2006.
The Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) found that the Bank’s work in fragile states has contributed to improving macroeconomic stability and to delivering significant amounts of physical infrastructure, especially in postconflict environments. Substantial progress has also been made on donor coordination at the international policy level. However, reforms in some fragile states have lacked selectivity and prioritization. While the Bank has made state-building a central focus, it has not adequately demonstrated how past weaknesses will be avoided or how better capacity development and governance outcomes will be ensured, according to the IEG. The Bank has yet to address the allocation of aid for fragile states in a way that reflects its objectives for these countries and ensures that fragile states are not under- or over-aided.
MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Middle-income countries face substantial development challenges. They must sustain growth that provides productive employment while reducing poverty and inequality. They must manage macroeconomic risks stemming from volatile capitalflows, contingent liabilities, financial markets, and pensions. They must build crisis-management capability to deal with global pandemics, such as avian Hu. They must enhance their competitiveness, adopt clean energy, ensure environmental sustainability, and strengthen the institutional and governance structures that underpin viable market-based economies. The Bank is uniquely placed to help middle-income countries deal with all of these challenges through IBRD.
The Role of IBRD
IBRD is an AAA-rated financial institution—with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders are sovereign governments, each of which has a voice in setting IBRD’s policies. Many of them are eligible to borrowfrom it. IBRD provides financing (loans, guarantees, and related risk-management tools); expertise in development-related technical disciplines; and assistance in gaining access
to capital and financial risk-management tools in larger volumes, on better terms, at longer maturities, and in a more sustainable mannerthan countries could receive from other sources. Unlike commercial banks, IBRD is driven by development impact ratherthan profit maximization.
IBRD Lending
New lending commitments by IBRD fell in fiscal 2007, to $12.8 billion for 112 operations. Development policy lending represented 28 percent of total lending.
Latin America and the Caribbean received the most IBRD lending, with $4.4 billion (34 percent of total IBRD commitments). It was followed by Europe and Central Asia, which received $3.3 billion (26 percent) in funding, and East Asia and Pacific, which received $2.8 billion (22 percent). Lending was more concentrated than in fiscal 2006. Whereas in fiscal 2006, 52 percent of total lending went to the five largest borrowers, in fiscal 2007, combined commitments amounting to 56 percent of total lending went to the five largest borrowers—Argentina, China, India, Turkey, and Colombia.
Transportation received the highest volume of IBRD lending ($3.6 billion); followed by Lawand Justice and Public Administration ($2.7 billion); and Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection ($1.9 billion). The thematic composition of lending was led by Financial and Private Sector Development ($2.6 billion), followed by Urban Development ($1.6 billion).
Figures 3.11-3.13 showlBRD lending by region, theme, and sector. Development policy lending commitments are shown on the accompanying CD-ROM.
IBRD Resources
IBRD obtains most of its funds by selling bonds in international capital markets. In fiscal 2007, it raised $11 billion at medium-to long-term maturities. Debt securities, with a wide range of maturities and structures, were issued in 11 currencies.
IBRD is able to borrow high volumes on very favorable terms. IBRD’s financial strength is based on its prudent financial policies and practices, which help maintain its high credit rating. As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities.
IBRD maintained adequate liquidity in fiscal 2007 to ensure its ability to meet its obligations. As of June 30, 2007, it held about $22.2 billion in liquid assets. Also as of June 30, 2007, IBRD’s outstanding borrowings from capital markets were about $81.1 billion (net of swaps) (figure 3.14). Borrowings exceeded equity by a factor of about three. Total disbursed and outstanding loans were $97.8 billion.
Consistent with IBRD’s development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange
rates are minimized. One summary measure of the Bank’s risk profile is the ratio of balance sheet equity to outstanding net loans, which is closely managed in line with the Bank’s financial and risk outlook. This ratio, excluding the reserve allocation from allocable net income in fiscal 2007, stood at 35percentasofJune30, 2007 (figure 3.15).
NONLENDING ACTIVITIES CountryAssistance Strategies
A country assistance strategy (CAS) guides Bank Group activities within a borrowing member country. Starting with a country’s vision of its development goals, a CAS is prepared in consultation with the government, civil society organizations, development partners, and otherstakeholders. It assesses the country’s development situation and suggests a program
to meet its needs. During fiscal 2007, the Bank prepared 38 CAS products, including 10 CAS progress reports and
12	interim strategy notes, which are prepared when a country assistance strategy cannot be completed because of specific country circumstances. Of these, 19 were prepared jointly with IFC, and severalwere prepared collaboratively with other donors.
Strategy Development
In fiscal 2007, the World Bank produced two sector strategy papers: HealthyDevelopment: The World Bank's Strategyfor Health, Nutrition, and Population Results, and Financial Sector Strategy for the World Bank. In addition, other strategy-related papers, including a paper on the strategy for strengthening the World Bank’s engagement with IBRD partner countries, were discussed in fiscal 2007 by the Development Committee. In February 2007, the Executive Directors approved a new policy framework for strengthening the World Bank’s rapid response to crises and emergencies, which was accompanied by a new strategy for strengthening the Bank’s institutional support and long-term engagement in fragile states. The Bank also produced a governance and anticorruption strategy that was endorsed by the Executive Directors.
Analytic and Advisory Services
Analytic and advisory activities are an integral part of the Bank’s nonlending client services. The core group of products consists of economic and sector work and technical assistance (nonlending). Economicand sectorworkaimsto influence client-country policies and programs. Technical assistance helps client countries implement policies and programs. To strengthen outcome orientation, ensure country ownership, and work within a harmonized donor approach, analytic and advisory activities are increasingly prepared in close collaboration with client countries and other multilateral and bilateral donors.
The Bank delivered 531 economic and sectorwork and 430 technical assistance products in fiscal 2007.
Research
The Bank’s research group investigates a wide range of development issues. Its studies are designed to inform and influence researchers, academics, and the policy community—and to lead to better outcomes for poor people.
In fiscal 2007, the group produced new data sets on poverty, international migration, and access to finance. These data sets include new household surveys conducted as part of the Living Standards Measurement Study; an interactive tool (PovcalNet) that allows users to access data from 600 household surveys to replicate the Bank’s global $1-a-day poverty measure; and a Poverty Analysis Toolkit. Other products developed in fiscal 2007 include a database that provides estimates of international migration of skilled workers, and a cross-country data set on financial indicators that shows the extent to which enterprises and households use financial services.
In September 2006, an independent panel released the results of its review of Bank research conducted between 1998 and 2005. After examining more than 200 research projects and reports, it concluded that 61 percent of its sample was of above-average or superior quality, and it singled out the Bank’s role as collector of development data as especially valuable. The report offered two main recommendations for strengthening research at the Bank: statistical capacity needs to be reinforced, and the borderline between advocacy and research needs to be carefully respected. Further discussion by the Board stressed the importance of enhancing data collection and management capacity.
World Banklnstitute
The World Bank Institute (WBI) focuses on knowledge sharing and learning. It identifies countries’ capacity development needs and provides relevant services and
QUALITY ASSURANCE GROUP FINDINGS
In its annual review of the Bank's active [ending portfolio, the Quality Assurance Group estimated that the share ofwell-performing Bank projects at completion reached 81 percent in fiscal 2006, a level unmatched in the past 25 years. From fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2006, Transportation was the top performer among sectors, with more than 90 percent of outcomes rated as satisfactory. East Asia and Pacific was the top-performing region, with 83 percent of projects rated as satisfactory. And whereas IDA's share of World Bank commitments in 2001 was about one-third of the total, today it makes up 42 percent of the portfolio.
The report cautioned that underreporting of portfolio risks remained a serious concern: while Bank staff report problems in 11 percent of projects in the active portfolio, the actual share may be closerto 25 percent. Fragile states continue to represent critical challenges forthe Bank, with a low satisfactory outcome rating of 56 percent during the four-year period from fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2006. Bank performance in terms of quality at entry and of quality of supervision in these countries, which are fully within the Bank's control, remain areas of concern. Bank management is taking a number of actions to enhance the Bank's organizational response to fragile states.
products, including technical assistance, thematic learning activities, cabinet-level retreats, and other programs.
In addition to providing critical knowledge and educational programs, WBI supports long-term capacity development by delivering multiyear programs, particularly in 45 focus countries specially designated for capacity development and to which 70 percent of WBI’s annual budget is dedicated. Fourteen of these countries are in Africa, where WBI plays a key role in implementing the Bank’s Africa Action Plan.
In fiscal 2007, WBI delivered some 700 learning activities and reached more than 75,000 participants, 33 percent of whom were women and 26 percent of whom were from Africa. WBI also increased its attention to organizational strengthening and reform. As part of a long-term program with the Central Bank of Bangladesh, it helped set up a policy analysis unit in the Central Bank’s research department.
That unit published its first-ever financial sector review. In response to a request from the newly elected government of Liberia, WBI and the United Nations Development Programme organized two seminars on the budget process forthe executive branch and the legislature. WBI has been engaged in a long-term program with the government of Sudan to meet the country’s postconflict transitional needs. This work is integrated with ongoing technical assistance funded bymultidonortrustfunds.
WBI has been supporting the Bank’s strategy on middle-income countries by facilitating knowledge exchanges between developing countries, leveraging the expertise of countries that are world leaders in areas such as clean energy, HIV/AIDS, conditional cash transfers, and agricultural research. It has also facilitated the exchange of knowledge among European Union (EU) accession countries. In Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Turkey, for example, WBI has been bringing leaders from EU countries together with leaders from non-EU countries to share their experiences with developing plans for the EU accession or convergence process.
WBI’s most prominent global programs are in governance and anticorruption and in knowledge for development (K4-D). The K4-D program assesses the preparedness of a country or region to compete in the global knowledge economy on the basis of WBI’s Knowledge Assessment Methodology (KAM). The 2007 KAM identifies sectors or specific areas where policy makers may need to focus more attention or increase investments.
GLOBAL CONNECTIONS Partnerships
Global partnerships are increasing because of the growing integration of the world’s economies and the existence of development challenges that cross national boundaries.
These partnerships promote efforts in areas of common concern such as combating communicable diseases, preserving the environment, acquiring and sharing knowledge, integrating trade, addressing international migration issues, and developing infrastructure. The Bank is also continuing its work with development partners on cooperative measures that minimize the cost of delivering aid and thereby increase aid effectiveness. The Bank participates in some 170 global and regional partnerships, forwhich it committed more than $170 million from its own resources in fiscal 2007.
The Bank plays different roles in these initiatives, including trustee of donor funds, financial contributor, and implementing agency.
The Global Development Learning Network
Launched in 2000, the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) is a partnership of more than 110 learning centers (known as Affiliates) in 60 developing countries. GDLN Affiliates collaborate in holding events that connect people across countries and regions for learning and dialogue on development issues. Offering a combination of distance-learning tools, such as interactive videoconferencing and the Internet, and expert facilitation and learning techniques,
GDLN Affiliates enable individuals, teams, and organizations anywhere in the world to communicate, share knowledge, and learn from each others’ experiences in a timely and cost-effective manner.
The GDLN hosted approximately 1,000 videoconferences in fiscal 2007, reaching some 90,000 people worldwide. A majority of these conferences were organized by small government agencies and nongovernmental organizations.
Trust Funds
The World Bank has been mobilizing concessional resources for poverty reduction and sustainable development for nearly 50 years. IDA continues to be the primary channel for such resources. However, in recent years there has been strong growth in complementary channels that are also administered by the Bank, both at the country level and in support of global priorities. The Bank takes on this role largely in response to the international community’s desire that it help leverage donor resources for a broad range of development initiatives. These initiatives vary significantly in size and complexity, ranging from multibillion dollar arrangements— such as Carbon Finance; the Global Environment Facility; the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative; and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria—to much smallerand simpler freestanding ones. These activities are further described in the World Bank’s Trust Funds Annual Report. Table 3.2 lists the top 10 trust fund donors.
Cofinancing
Cofinancing isanyarrangement underwhichfundsfromthe Bank are associated with funds provided by sources outside the recipient country for a specific lending project or program. In fiscal 2007, 130 Bank projects leveraged $6.3 billion in cofinancing. Major cofinanciers were the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development ($1 billion) and the African Development Bank ($0.6 billion). The regions that benefited the most were Africa ($3 billion), the Middle East and North Africa ($1.1 billion), and South Asia ($1 billion). Energyand Mining; Health, Nutrition, and Population; and Transportation received $1.8 billion, $1.1 billion, and $0.8 billion, respectively. Multilateral agencies contributed $2.4 billion in cofinancing.
EnhancingWorld Bank-IMF Collaboration
Although there are many examples of good collaboration between the Bank and the International Monetary Fund, room remains for further improvement according to a report released in February 2007 by the External Review Committee on IMF-World Bank Collaboration. Its main recommendations are to strengthen the culture of collaboration between the two institutions, to promote cooperation in crisis management, to improve integration and harmonization of work on fiscal issues, to better coordinate technical assistance undertaken by the institutions, and to continue to improve collaboration and clarify roles in financial sector development.
COOPERATION ACROSS THE WORLD BANK GROUP: IMPROVING THE INVESTMENT CLIMATE
The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) plays a lead role in the Bank Group's workonthe business environment. In February 2007, FIAS welcomed MIGA's team and technical assistance programs as part of an integration approved by MIGA's Board of Directors. Funded by IFC, MIGA, the World Bank, and external donors, FIAS promotes investment (domestic and foreign) by helping countries improve their business climates.
Due in part to FIAS' efforts in Sierra Leone, average business registration costs there were reduced from $1,500 to about $50. In Kenya, 110 business licenseswere eliminated in 2006, and the government has
committed to eliminating over 300 more following advice from FIAS. After three years of collaboration with FIAS and IFC, China and Vietnam each passed legislation that will improve access to credit for small businesses.
The Aceh Investor Outreach Office, a joint IFC and FIAS project launched in March 2007, has assisted more than a dozen potential investors to date. The outreach office acts as a gateway to Aceh for foreign and domestic investors, providing companieswith information, contacts, advice on regulatory requirements, and policy advocacy. (See www.fias.netl
THEWORLD BANKGROUP
Established 1944 I 185 Members
Cumulative lending: $433 billion*
Fiscal 2007 lending: $12.8 billion for 112 new operations in 34 countries
*Effective fiscal 2005, includes guarantees.
IBRD aims to reduce poverty in middle-income and creditworthy poorer countries by promoting sustainable development through loans, guarantees, risk-management products, and (nonlending) analytical and advisory services. The
income that IBRD has generated over the years has allowed it to fund development activities and to ensure its financial strength, which enables it to borrow in capital markets at low cost and to offer clients good borrowing terms.
Established 1960 I 166 Members
Cumulative commitments: $181 billion*
Fiscal 2007 commitments: $11.9 billion for 189 new operations in 64 countries
*Effective fiscal 2005, includes guarantees.
IDA provides highly concessional financing to the world’s 82 poorest countries. IDA’s interest-free, long-term credits and grants— financed by contributions to IDA from donor countries, IBRD’s net income transfers, and IDA’s credit reflows—arevital becausethese countries have little or no capacity to borrow
on market terms. IDA’s resources help support country-led poverty reduction strategies in key policyareas, including raising productivity, providing accountable governance, building a healthy investment climate, and improving access to basic services, such as education and health care.
Established 1956 I 179 Members
Committed portfolio: $25.4 billion (IFC's account), plus $5.5 billion in syndicated loans
Fiscal 2007 commitments: $8.2 billion committed and $3.9 billion mobilized for 299 projects in 69 countries
IFC invests in sustainable private enterprises in developing and transition countries without accepting government guarantees, thereby helping to reduce povertyand improve people’s lives. It provides equity, long-term loans, advisory services, and structured finance and risk-management products to clients. IFC seeks to reach businesses in regions and
countries that have limited access to capital. It provides financing in markets deemed too risky by commercial investors in the absence of IFC participation, and it adds value to the projects it finances through its corporate governance, environmental, and social expertise. IFC partners with IBRD, IDA, and MIGA on private sector initiatives.
THE MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY
MIGA provides political risk insurance (guarantees) to encourage foreign direct investment in developing countries. MIGA’s guarantees protect investments against noncommercial risks, including expropriation, currency inconvertibility, breach of contract, andwarand civil disturbance (including terrorism). The agency helps investors and governments resolve disputes that may adversely impact MIGA-backed investments, thus keeping projects
on track. MIGA also advises countries on attracting foreign direct investment, and it provides a suite of online services offering free information on investment opportunities, business operating conditions, and political risk insurance. MIGA specializes in facilitating investments in high-risk, low-income countries, supporting complex infrastructure projects, and promo ting investments between developing countries.
by providing international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes, thereby helping fosteran atmosphere of mutual confidence between states and foreign investors.
concerning investment referto ICSID’s arbitration facilities. ICSID also conducts research and publishing activities in the areas of arbitration law and foreign investment law.


1.	OVERVIEW
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD's main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty in its developing member countries. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and for programs for economic reform. IBRD's ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD's financial objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its array of financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD's financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD's principal assets are its loans to member countries. The majority of IBRD's outstanding loans are priced on a cost pass-through basis. (See Tables 6 and 7 for loan pricing details).
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. These borrowings, together with IBRD's equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its liabilities and equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets,
liabilities, income and expenses in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements in all the currencies in which IBRD transacts compared to IBRD's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD's risk-bearing capacity.
Lending commitments to member countries in FY 2007 were $12.8 billion, reflecting a decrease of $1.3 billion from the FY 2006 level of $14.1 billion.
For the purposes of this document Operating Income refers to net income before Board of Governors-approved transfers and the effect of net unrealized (losses) gains on non-trading derivatives and borrowings measured at fair value per FAS 133 as amended. FY 2007 Operating Income was $1,659 million, $81 million less than that for FY 2006.
During FY 2007, provisioning requirements for probable losses on loans and guarantees were reduced by $405 million due to the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD), and the reduction in the volume of the loan portfolio.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD's operating environment, it is management's practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities. The allocations from FY 2007 net income, together with the waivers of loan charges, are expected to be approved by the Executive Directors and the Board of Governors during FY 2008.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and referred to in this document as the “reported basis.”
Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, IBRD has marked all derivative instruments, as defined by this standard, to fair value, with changes in fair value being recognized immediately in earnings. This standard allows hedge accounting for qualifying hedging relationships, if certain criteria are met. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of these criteria to IBRD's derivative portfolio would not appropriately reflect its risk management strategies. Therefore, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships and, as a result, all changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are recognized immediately in earnings. In addition, effective July 1, 2006, IBRD early adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments which amends certain provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.133. As a result, IBRD also recognizes at fair value, all qualifying hybrid debt instruments that would otherwise be bifurcated and valued separately.
In this document, the above Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 as amended by subsequent standards are together referred to as “FAS 133 as amended.”
Management Reporting
In implementing its risk management (interest rate and currency risk) and funding strategies, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives. In addition, IBRD uses derivative instruments for asset/ liability management of individual positions and portfolios.
IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing lower cost funds to borrowing members. Because of the extent of IBRD's long-dated funding, the reported volatility under FAS 133 as amended may be more pronounced than for many other financial institutions. The effects of applying FAS 133 as amended may significantly affect reported results in each accounting period, depending on changes in market rates. However, IBRD believes that its funding and asset/liability management strategies accomplish its objectives of protection from market risk and provision of lower cost funding, and that a current value basis provides more meaningful information for risk management and management reporting.
IBRD believes that a current value presentation reflects the economic value of all of its financial instruments. The current value model is based on the present value of expected cash flows. The model incorporates available market data in determining the cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. The current value financial statements are non U.S. GAAP measures and do not purport to present the net realizable, liquidation, or market value of IBRD as a whole.
Box 2: Hedging Strategy and Use of Derivatives
IBRD is a financial intermediary, borrowing funds in international capital markets for on-lending to member countries. As a matter of policy, IBRD mitigates interest rate and foreign exchange risks in its financing operations by entering into derivative transactions to reduce any mismatches between the interest rate position/currency composition of its liabilities and the assets funded by these liabilities. This approach insulates IBRD's balance sheet from material interest rate or currency exposure. A number of risk management techniques that IBRD utilizes would not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 as amended. Accordingly, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships, though IBRD's policies and hedging strategy achieve its risk minimization objectives.
IBRD's application of FAS 133 as amended, accounts for all derivatives and certain debt instruments, at fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognized in earnings. IBRD's portfolio of derivatives that convert long-dated fixed-rate borrowings into floating rate obligations are financially equivalent to fixed non-U.S. dollar rate assets. In general, the reported values of these derivatives will decline when market interest rates increase and vice versa. Although these derivatives economically offset other financial positions on plain vanilla bonds and loans, those positions are generally not accounted for at fair value. Consequently, the reported values of plain vanilla bonds and loans are not affected by interest rate movements. Thus an asymmetry results in the reported financial statements when the values of economically offsetting transactions are reported on different bases.
Taking the above factors into account, IBRD believes that reported income does not capture the true economic income for IBRD. Accordingly, for management reporting purposes, IBRD instead uses current value financial statements, as shown in Tables 2 and 3, which mark both the derivatives and the underlying liabilities and assets to current value. Furthermore, IBRD bases its annual allocation and distribution decisions on reported income less the associated adjustments for derivatives as defined by FAS133 as amended and Board of Governors-approved transfers. IBRD does not utilize reported income for any management purposes. IBRD has consistently followed this approach from FY2000, since the introduction of FAS 133, regardless of whether the effects of that standard or its amendments by subsequent standards, increased or decreased IBRD's reported income in a given fiscal year.
The Condensed Current Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD's estimates of the economic value of its financial assets and liabilities, after considering market and credit risks. The current year's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20 in Section 10.
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income is presented in Table 2. The “Adjustments to Current Value” column provides a reconciliation between net income on a reported basis and net income on a current value basis. The movement in unrealized mark-to-market gains from the investment portfolio of $24 million, and the reduction in the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of $405 million are reversed from the reported operating income, to arrive at $1,230 million in operating income on a current value basis before the effects of unrealized gains and losses. To arrive at net income on a current value basis, the Current Value adjustment of $222 million for market risk and the release in the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of $405 million reflecting credit risk are added while the $842 million effect of FAS 133 as amended is reversed. The prior year's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 21 in Section 10.
A summary of the effects on net income of the current value adjustments in the balance sheet is presented in Table 3.
Current Value Balance Sheets
Loan Portfolio
All of IBRD's loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to the International Finance Corporation, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD.
The current value of loans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management's best estimates, taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value also includes IBRD's assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering various factors including its history of payment receipts from borrowers. IBRD has always eventually collected all contractual principal and interest due on its loans. However, IBRD has suffered losses resulting from the difference between the discounted present value of payments for interest and charges, according to the loan's contractual terms, and the actual timing of cash flows. To recognize the credit risk inherent in these and any other potential overdue payments, IBRD adjusts the value of its loans through its loan loss provision.
At June 30, 2007, the $711 million increase in IBRD's loan portfolio from the reported basis to the current value basis as shown in Table 3 ($881 million—June 30, 2006) reflects the fact that the loans in the portfolio, on average, carry a higher rate of interest than the rate at which IBRD would currently originate a similar loan at the reporting date. The $170 million decrease in the current value adjustment from June 30, 2006 was primarily due to the decrease in the mark on euro and Japanese yen denominated loans, consistent with the increase in the reference market yield curves for the euro and Japanese yen during the year, partially offset by the increase in the mark on U.S dollar denominated loans. For the U.S. dollar reference market yield curves see Figure 11.
Investment Portfolio
Under both the reported and current value basis, the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD's trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair values. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information.
Borrowing Portfolio
The borrowing portfolio on a current value basis includes debt securities and associated financial derivatives, and represents the present value of expected cash flows on these instruments discounted by the cost at which IBRD would obtain funding at the reporting date. The valuation model incorporates available market data in determining the expected cash flow and discount rates for each instrument. Market data include exchange rates and reference market interest rates. The current value for the borrowing portfolio includes current value adjustments for borrowings, payable for derivatives, receivable from derivatives and the reduction in other assets due to unamortized issuance costs.
At June 30, 2007, the $998 million increase in IBRD's borrowing portfolio from the reported basis to the current value basis as shown in Table 3 ($1,076 million—June 30, 2006) reflects the average cost of the borrowing portfolio being higher than the rate at which IBRD could obtain funding at the reporting date. The $78 million decrease from June 30, 2006 in the current value adjustment was due primarily to the decrease in the mark on the euro and Japanese yen
denominated debt consistent with the rise in the reference market yield curves for the euro and Japanese yen during the year. This was partially offset by the increase in the mark on U.S. dollar denominated debt. For the U.S. dollar reference market yield curves see Figure 11.
Income from Loans
Income from loans increased by $603 million during FY 2007 in comparison with FY 2006. The main reason for this increase was higher lending rates which contributed $794 million. This was partially offset by a $134 million reduction in income due to lower average loan balances outstanding.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
During FY 2007, there was a $405 million release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees in comparison to a release of $724 million during FY
2006.	The release of provision in each period reflects the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding, net of translation adjustments and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probabilities of default to IBRD) and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio. The effect has been a decrease in net income of $319 million between the two fiscal years.
Income from Investments
During FY 2007, income from investments increased by $96 million due to higher average short-term interest rates, in comparison with FY 2006 (see Figure 10). IBRD holds primarily short-term U.S dollar fixed income investments with an average duration of less than three months.
Borrowing Expenses
Borrowing expenses increased by $475 million during FY 2007, in comparison with FY 2006. With approximately two-thirds of borrowings based on short-term U.S. dollar interest rates, the increase in U.S. dollar six-month LIBOR in FY 2007 (see Figure 10), resulted in higher borrowing expenses. This was partly offset by a reduction in the average portfolio size.
Gross Administrative Expenses (Including Contributions to Special Programs)
Gross Administrative expenses increased by $5 million during FY 2007 compared to FY 2006. The main reasons for this increase were costs related to contractual services and equipment and buildings which contributed $21 million. This was partially offset by $14 million decrease relating to pension and other postretirement benefits, (see Table 19).
Current Value Adjustments
As part of its risk management strategy, IBRD closely aligns the duration (interest rate sensitivity) and the currency composition of its equity to that of its loan portfolio in order to minimize the impact of any interest rate and currency exchange rate movements
on its risk bearing capacity. Therefore, on a current value basis while there will be some mark-to-market effect on equity, such an impact will not significantly affect IBRD's risk bearing capacity. Consistent with the positive duration of IBRD's equity, in a rising interest rate environment, the current value adjustment due to interest rate changes, decreased net income in FY 2007 by $68 million (decrease of $588 million in FY 2006) as shown in Table 3.This decrease was more than offset by the favorable effect of $266 million ($138 million in FY2006) due to the appreciation of the euro against the U.S. dollar. The overall effect on the Statement of Income was a positive $222 million in FY 2007 against a negative effect of $446 million in FY 2006.
Impact of changes due to interest rates The current value effect on the Statement of Income of negative $68 million during FY 2007, was primarily due to the decrease in the current value mark on the loan portfolio of $170 million partially offset by the decrease in the current value mark on the borrowing portfolio of $78 million. These adjustments have been explained under the Current Value Balance Sheet Section. Similarly, during FY
2006,	IBRD's net income on a current value basis included a negative adjustment of $588 million, due to the decrease in the current value mark on the loan portfolio reflecting higher U.S. dollar reference market yield curve. These losses were partially offset by the decrease in the current value mark on the borrowing portfolio.
Impact of changes due to currency translation The current value adjustment from currency translation adjustments of positive $266 million was primarily due to the appreciation of the euro (7%) offset by the depreciation of the Japanese yen (5.1%) against the U.S. dollar during FY 2007. Table 4 provides a breakdown of this adjustment by the loans and borrowing portfolios. The loan portfolio contributed $892 million towards this increase. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 18% and 4% of the total loan portfolio, and 97% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated loans at June 30, 2007. The borrowing portfolio accounted for a negative $636 million. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 13% and 3% of the total borrowing portfolio, and 96% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated borrowings at June 30, 2007.
In comparison, during FY 2006 the impact of exchange rate changes on IBRD's net assets resulted in a positive translation adjustment of $138 million due to the appreciation of the euro (3.8%) offset by the depreciation of the Japanese yen (5.5%) against the U.S. dollar.
Given IBRD's risk management strategy, the stability of the current value equity-to-loans ratio is considered more significant than fluctuations in the net current value adjustments.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, related derivative products, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2007, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $378,204 million to borrowers in 133 countries. A summary of cumulative lending is contained in Table 5.
At June 30, 2007, the total volume of outstanding loans was $97,805 million, $5,199 million lower than the $103,004 million of outstanding loans at June 30,
2006.	This decrease was due primarily to negative net disbursements of $6,193 million, including $6,354 million of prepayments. Undisbursed balances at June 30, 2007 totaled $35,440 million, reflecting an increase of $502 million from June 30, 2006. This change was due to new commitments and positive currency translation adjustments, partially offset by cancellations and disbursements of loans.
a.	Net of cancellations
b. Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of repayment by borrowers.
During FY 2007, new loans, guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities to member countries were $12,829 million, ($14,135 million-FY 2006). During the five year period from FY 2003 to FY 2007, Latin America and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of commitments. Figure 1 presents the regional composition of commitments from FY 2003 to FY 2007.
Figure 1: Commitments including Guarantee Facilities by Region
Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, including participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2007, outstanding loans and callable guarantees (net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees) totaled $96,040 million, equal to 44% of the statutory lending limit.
IBRD's lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 3. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD's loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Investment projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD's standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness. Specific provisions apply to development policy lending financed by IBRD loans, including the treatment of the macroeconomic framework, poverty and social impact, environment, forests and other natural resources.
(iii)	In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country's economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)	IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member's overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion oflBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. However, this does not preclude lending to members who may have access to international credit markets. It is the intention of IBRD to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)	The use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements intended to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD's satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency. In addition, under a pilot program approved by the Executive Directors in March 2005, IBRD considers the use of borrower country environmental and social safeguard systems in selected operations where these systems are assessed as being equivalent to IBRD's systems and where the borrower's implementation practices, track record, and capacity are considered acceptable to IBRD.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project, and approving and disbursing a loan, often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD's operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptions3, each loan must be approved by IBRD's Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor
a.	For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of 15 million or less approved by Management.
compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. The Independent Evaluation Group, an IBRD unit whose director reports to the Executive Directors rather than to the President, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or development policy lending (previously referred to as adjustment lending). Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, development policy lending is generally provided in exchange for commitments by borrowers to implement social, structural, and institutional reforms. The majority of IBRD loans are for investment projects or programs. Figure 2 shows the percentage of IBRD loans approved for development policy lending over the past seven years.
the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD can efficiently intermediate: variable-spread loans, and fixed-spread loans. Variable-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 1993, have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months. Fixed-spread loans, which were introduced in FY 2000, have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan.
Borrowers selecting the fixed-spread loan product may, for a fee, change the currency or interest rate basis over the life of the loan. For example, borrowers have the option to fix, unfix, or re-fix the interest rate at market rates on all or a part of the disbursed amounts for up to the remaining maturity of the loan.
The transaction fees for changing the currency or interest rate basis of fixed-spread loans were revised during FY 2006. On undisbursed loans, the fee (based on percentage of principal amount converted) for currency conversion is an up-front charge of 0.125% of the principal to be converted. On disbursed loans, the fee for currency conversion is an annual charge of 0.02% of the amount converted. Interest rate conversion carries no transaction fee.
Table 6 summarizes the contractual terms for these types of loans.
In FY 2007, new IBRD commitments for development policy lending accounted for 28% of total commitments (35%-FY 2006; 31%-FY 2005).
Contractual Terms of Loans
Contractual Terms of Currently Available Products
IBRD currently offers a product mix that is intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to select terms that are both compatible with their debt management strategy and suited to their debt-servicing capacity. As of June 30, 2007, IBRD offers the following two basic types of loan terms, each denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by
Repayment terms for fixed-spread loans are more flexible than for variable-spread loans, subject to certain constraints on the average repayment maturity and final maturity on a country basis. Within these constraints, borrowers have flexibility to configure grace periods and maturity profiles in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan. Repayment profiles may be level repayment of principal, an annuity type schedule, a single lumpsum repayment, or a customized schedule. Repayment profiles cannot be changed after a loan is signed.
At June 30,2007, 78% (71%—June 30, 2006) ofloans outstanding were made on currently available terms.
Local Currency Lending
IBRD offers its borrowers products to convert or swap their IBRD loans into their domestic currencies to reduce their foreign currency exposure with respect to projects or programs that do not generate foreign currency revenues. These local currency loans have Fixed Spread Loan terms. The balance of such loans outstanding at June 30, 2007 was $49 million.
As part of the initiative taken during FY 2005 by the Executive Directors to increase the usability of local currency paid-in capital, IBRD entered into a Local Currency Loan Facility Agreement with IFC which is capped at $300 million. Under this agreement, IBRD would lend local currencies of its member countries, funded from paid-in capital, to IFC. These currencies would subsequently be used by IFC to finance projects in those member countries. Loan commitments under this facility are subject to consents of the respective IBRD member countries whose currency is involved. At June 30, 2007, loans outstanding equivalent to $50 million had been made under this facility.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option A Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD development policy loans gives IBRD borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years. Loans with a DDO are subject to a commitment fee of 100 basis points, which is 25 basis points higher than that for standard IBRD loans. Also, the front-end fee which is normally payable at the time a loan becomes effective, is only payable for a DDO loan at the time it is disbursed.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of charges and interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Eligibility for the
partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion ofloans are also determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 7 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan charge waivers. Further details are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Table 7: Loan Charge Waivers
Basis points
a. On loans to eligible borrowers.
Related Derivative Products
Derivatives for Client Operations
Along with the approval of the introduction of the
fixed-spread loan product with its various risk
management features such as rate fixing and
currency conversion, IBRD also offers derivative
products to borrowers and non-affiliated
organizations.
Borrowers: These products respond to borrowers' needs for access to better risk management tools in connection with existing IBRD loans. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars. IBRD will pass through its market cost of the instrument to the borrower, and will charge a transaction fee comparable to the fee charged on the fixed-spread loan conversion features. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement, which substantially conforms to industry standards, or in individually negotiated transactions.
Non-affiliated Organizations: IBRD has executed a master derivatives agreement with the International Finance Facility for Immunisation (IFFIm), a AAArated non-affiliated organization. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, several transactions were executed between IBRD and IFFIm under this arrangement. Concurrently IBRD entered into
offsetting transactions with market counterparties. In addition, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IBRD facilitated access to the financial markets for the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), a non-affiliated organization, by entering into a one year earthquake and weather derivative contract. As in the case of IFFIm, IBRD entered into an offsetting transaction with a market counterparty. IBRD has applied all its normal commercial credit risk policies to these transactions. Further details on derivatives for clients are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees, and Note O-Derivatives for Client Operations.
Contractual Terms of Previously Available Products
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other contractual terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fixed-rate single currency loans.
Table 8 summarizes the contractual terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans, and fixed-rate single-currency loans.
In 1980, IBRD established the currency pool system, funded primarily with fixed rate medium-to-long term borrowings. In 1982, IBRD mitigated its interest rate risk by moving from offering a fixed rate to a variable rate on these loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors, and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro. The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans. Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro.
The variable rate multi-currency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar pool lending rates were revised in FY
2006	to composite LIBOR + 100 basis points or the fixed rate equivalent thereof (at the borrower's choice) for borrowers that agree to certain amendments to their loan agreements. This revision was required to adjust the pool lending rates, which are rising above market rates as these products are phased out, in a manner that was not envisioned at the time that borrowers signed their loan agreements. These modified loan terms were offered from July 2006 and applied on interest rate reset dates that occurred on or after January 1, 2007. At June 30, 2007, 7% of the outstanding balance of variable rate multi-currency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar had been so modified.
Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fixed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
At June 30, 2007, 22% (29%—June 30,2006) ofloans outstanding carried these previously available contractual terms.
Figure 3 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. These guarantees can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans, and in exceptional cases offered in countries only eligible to borrow from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances, and may be provided directly or via facilities. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks or generally risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage.
Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government. IBRD prices guarantees consistent with the way it prices its loans.
IBRD generally provides the following types of guarantees:
Partial risk guarantees: These cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations.
Partial credit guarantees: These are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or principal payments on loans to the government or its agencies.
Policy-based guarantees: When partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD development policy lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
Enclave guarantees: These partial risk guarantees are offered in exceptional cases for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for non-enclave guarantees. The annual commitment of enclave guarantees is limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30, 2007 commitments made under enclave guarantees were $30 million.
IBRD's exposure at June 30, 2007 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 9. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Table 9: Guarantee Exposure
Other Activities
Consultation: In addition to its financial operations, IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member
countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD-through the World Bank Institute and its partners-provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J-Management of External Funds.
Investment Management: IBRD offers investment management services to several types of external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One objective of providing the services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These managed funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J-Management of External Funds.
4.	LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
IBRD's liquid assets are held principally in highly-rated fixed income securities. These securities include obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps (including currency forward contracts), asset-backed (including mortgage-backed) securities, and futures, options and swaptions contracts.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD's activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD's financial commitments.
As one component of liquidity management, IBRD maintained a $1 billion line of credit as of June 30,
2007,	with an independent financial institution. The terms of this facility provided for a usage fee on any outstanding balance at the rate of 0.15% per annum
and fluctuating interest per annum on the overnight borrowings calculated at 200 basis points above the Federal Funds Rate. This facility was used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may have occurred due to failed trades. In addition, an intra-day overdraft facility of $1 billion used for covering daily trade activities was maintained by IBRD as of June 30, 2007 with another independent financial institution. The terms of this facility provided for a basic annual overdraft usage fee of $325,000 and a daily overnight borrowing fee calculated at the rate of 12.5 basis points per annum above the provider's monthly average daily effective Federal Funds Rate. Both these facilities were jointly held with the International Development Association (IDA) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) which are affiliated organizations. For further details about these facilities, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E-Borrowings.
The primary objective for IBRD in the management of liquid assets is to protect the principal amount of these investments. In addition, IBRD seeks to achieve a reasonable return on the liquid asset portfolio using prudent asset and risk management techniques. The General Investment Authorization for IBRD approved by the Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IBRD can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for investment, establishing risk parameters relative to benchmarks, such as an overall stop-loss limit and duration deviation, specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes, as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility for risk monitoring and compliance.
Under IBRD's liquidity management guidelines, aggregate liquid asset holdings are kept at or above a specified prudential minimum in order to safeguard against cash flow interruptions. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations plus one-half of approved net loan disbursements (if positive) as projected for the relevant fiscal year. The FY 2008 prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $16 billion, an increase of $0.5 billion from that set
for FY 2007. In general, the size of the liquid asset portfolio should not exceed 150% of the prudential minimum liquidity level. From time to time, IBRD may however hold liquid assets over the specified maximum level to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Liquid assets may be held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Investment of up to 20% of the stable portfolio may be contracted out to external managers. Separate investment guidelines which conform to IBRD's overall Investment Guidelines are provided to each external manager.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD's day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD's borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities.
Figure 4 represents IBRD's liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2007 and FY 2006, excluding investment assets associated with certain other postemployment benefits. At the end of FY
2007,	the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio was $21,958 million, reflecting a decrease of $2,697 million from FY 2006. Of this amount, $1,519 million ($1,443 million in FY 2006) in the stable portfolio was managed by external firms. IBRD's liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in U.S. dollars with net exposure to short-term interest rates. The debt funding these liquid assets also shares similar currency and duration profiles. This is a direct consequence of IBRD's exchange rate and interest rate risk management policies (see Section 6-Financial Risk Management), combined with appropriate investment benchmarks. In addition to monitoring gross investment returns compared to their benchmarks, IBRD also monitors overall investment earnings net of funding costs (see Section 8-Results of Operations).
The returns and average balances of the liquid asset portfolio in FY 2007 compared to FY 2006 are presented in Table 10. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits.
The higher returns in FY 2007 are due primarily to the higher average short-term interest rate environment in FY 2007 as compared to FY 2006, as shown in Figure 10.
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investment portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, IBRD enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Table 11 summarizes IBRD's significant contractual cash obligations, by remaining maturity, at June 30, 2007. Debt includes all borrowings excluding derivatives, but does not include any adjustment for unamortized premiums, discounts or effects of applying FAS 133 as amended
(additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E- Borrowings). Operating lease expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate-related obligations and equipment. Other long-term liabilities include accrued liabilities for staff compensation and benefits. Operating leases, contractual purchases and capital expenditures, and other long term obligations include amounts which will be shared with IDA, IFC and MIGA in accordance with individual cost sharing agreements (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note I-Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income).
Excluded from Table 11 are a number of obligations to be settled in cash. These obligations are presented in IBRD's balance sheet and include undisbursed loans; short-term borrowings; payable for currency and interest rate swaps; payable for investment securities purchased, and payable for transfers approved by the Board of Governors.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES Equity
Total shareholders' equity, as reported in IBRD's balance sheet at June 30, 2007, was $39,926 million compared to $36,474 million at June 30, 2006. The increase from FY 2006 primarily reflects the adjustment to beginning retained earnings of $3,189 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FAS 155.
IBRD's equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD's equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 12 presents the composition of this measure at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and an input to the assessment of capital adequacy. See discussion in Section 6, Financial Risk Management- Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity.
As presented in Figure 5, IBRD's equity-to-loans
ratio increased during FY 2007, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments associated with the FAS 133 adjustments) and a current value basis.
The increase in this ratio to 35.05% at June 30, 2007 from 32.96% at June 30, 2006 was due to the decrease in loans outstanding and present value of guarantees, net of relevant accumulated provisions and deferred loan income in FY 2007.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2007, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,811 million, of which $189,801 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,486 million had been paid-in and $178,315 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $9,277 million was available for lending and $2,208 million was not available for lending. The terms of payment of IBRD's capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors are as follows:
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$3,223 million of IBRD's capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,169 million of IBRD's capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of
the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent of the member whose currency is involved. In addition, these national currencies may be used by IBRD following a decision by the Board of Executive Directors to invest or lend in
that currency, or swap the national currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,329 million of this
amount was being used in IBRD's lending and investment operations at June 30, 2007.
(iii)	$94 million of IBRD's capital was converted to U.S. dollars from the currency of the subscribing members by providing U.S. dollar denominated nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing demand notes, encashable in the currency of the subscribing member. This amount may, under the terms of the note, be encashed for administrative expenses or, after all subscribed capital has been called, IBRD will have the right to encash the note to meet its obligations.
Callable Capital
(iv)	$151,841 million of IBRD's capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans. Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to dis-
charge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(v)	$26,474 million of IBRD's capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes. No call has ever been made on IBRD's callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2007, $103,604 million (58.1%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount exceeded IBRD's outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30, 2007. Table 13 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
The United States is IBRD's largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S. Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note B-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, Maintenance of Value and Membership.
Table 13: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
In millions of U.S. dollars
Total Capital Uncalled Portion Member Country3 Subscription of Subscription
a. See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2007 in Financial State-ments-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors around the world, both through global offerings and by way of bond issues designed to meet the needs of specific markets or types of investors. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees
Funding Operations
In FY 2007, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $10,712 million compared to $10,233 million in FY
2006.	Table 14 summarizes IBRD's funding operations for FY 2007 and FY2006.
Table 14: Funding Operations Indicators
a. Average maturity to first call date.
Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD's general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding of
future lending activities. Funding opportunities in FY 2007 and FY 2006 remained relatively stable in terms of instruments, and IBRD followed a strategy of selective bond issuance, combining issues targeted to retail investors with private placements and public issues placed with large institutional investors. All proceeds from new funding are initially invested in the liquid asset portfolio until they are required for IBRD's operations. Debt is allocated on a periodic basis to the different debt pools funding loans as necessary, in accordance with operating guidelines.
IBRD strategically repurchases, calls or prepays its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings and to reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year or to meet other operational needs. In response to market conditions, during FY 2007, IBRD repurchased or called $3,740 million of its outstanding borrowings ($3,918 million during FY 2006).
Use of Derivatives
All new funding is initially swapped into floating-rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with loan funding requirements. Figures 7a and 7b illustrate the effect of derivatives on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowing portfolio at June 30, 2007. Interest rate and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowing portfolio.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E-Borrowings.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
The risk management governance structure includes a Risk Management Unit supporting Senior Management in their oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
For financial risk management, there is a Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Finance Committee makes recommendations and, where appropriate to the topic, takes decisions in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Three subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Financial Instruments Subcommittee.
The Market Risk and Currency Management Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, investing activities, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The Financial Instruments
Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implementational issues of new products offered to IBRD borrowers.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. This unit is independent from IBRD's business units. Moreover, in order to further protect the independence of the unit, individual country credit risk ratings are not shared with the Executive Directors and are not made public. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness oflBRD borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which also reports to the Chief Financial Officer and is independent from the business units responsible for managing these risks. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate,
control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowing portfolios.
The primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IBRD's financial operations resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal controls in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IBRD. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, operational and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
The risk bearing capacity of IBRD is the adequacy of its capital to absorb credit shocks and still be able to lend for development purposes without the need for additional shareholder support. The Board of Executive Directors assesses IBRD's risk-bearing capacity based on a variety of metrics, including a framework of stress testing and simpler measures such as the equity-to-loans ratio, to assess capital adequacy.
The risk that a significant portion of its loan portfolio may go into extended arrears is the most significant risk faced by IBRD, and almost all of IBRD's equity
capital is held against this risk. Credit risk is measured in terms of both probable and unexpected losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and unexpected losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
The framework of stress testing provides a basis for evaluating whether IBRD has sufficient financial capacity to be able to (i) absorb the income loss due to a credit shock, and (ii) generate sufficient income to support loan growth in the following years. The first requirement on the degree of shock absorption is designed to reduce the probability of having to rely on additional shareholder support (in terms of additional paid-in capital or a call on callable capital). This is intended both to protect shareholders and to support IBRD's credit standing, which reduces borrowing costs and correspondingly, lending rates for borrowers. The second requirement on loan growth reflects the view that as a development institution, IBRD needs to play a positive role in a crisis by maintaining the capacity to continue lending to assist recovery in borrowing member countries. One of the credit shock events used in the stress testing framework is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at an appropriate confidence level.
IBRD's equity supports its risk-bearing capacity for its lending operations. IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. Therefore, IBRD uses the equity-to-loans ratio (on a current value basis) as one tool to monitor the sensitivity of its risk-bearing capacity to movements in interest and exchange rates. One of IBRD's financial risk management objectives is to seek to protect the equity-to-loans ratio from movements arising from market risks.
The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to interest rate movements arises primarily from the sensitivity of the “contribution of equity” (the income earned from that portion of IBRD's assets funded with equity rather than with debt) .The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates has been increasing as borrowers have chosen to borrow from IBRD primarily on floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based loans. To the extent that the duration of its equity capital is matched to that of its loan portfolio, this ratio is protected against interest rate movements. To the extent that the currency composition of its equity
capital is matched with that of its loan portfolio, the equity-to-loans ratio is also protected from exchange rate movements.
As presented in Figure 5 in Section 5, Funding Resources, IBRD's equity-to-loans ratio on both the current value and reported basis has been on an upward trend.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD's Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the credit risk of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD's overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through an exposure limit for loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees to a single borrowing country. Under the current guidelines, IBRD's exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an Equitable Access Limit or the Single Borrower Limit. The Equitable Access Limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. The Single Borrower Limit is established by assessing its impact on the overall portfolio risk relative to risk-bearing capacity, as measured by the level of usable equity. The Single Borrower Limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider the adequacy of IBRD's reserves and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY 2007, the Single Borrower Limit was $14.5 billion and the Equitable Access Limit at June 30, 2007 was $21.7 billion. As depicted in Figure 8, IBRD's largest exposure
(including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $11.6 billion at June 30, 2007
Figure 8: Top Eight Country Exposures at June 30, 2007
In billions of U.S. dollars
16 14 12
10 8 6 4 2 0
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Under certain circumstances, IBRD would be able to continue to lend to a borrower that was reaching the single borrower exposure limit by entering into an arrangement that would prevent its net exposure from exceeding the limit. Any such arrangement would need to be approved in advance by IBRD's Executive Directors. As of June 30, 2007 IBRD had entered into one such arrangement with China. As of this date, China had not reached the single borrower exposure limit and therefore, activation of this arrangement was not required.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges due to IBRD, IBRD has an option to suspend disbursements immediately on all loans. IBRD's current policy however, is to exercise this option through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 4. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IDA credits may become overdue. For borrowers with IBRD loans who become overdue in their debt service payments on IDA credits, IBRD also applies the treatment described in Box 4.
See Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30, 2007.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
IBRD's provision for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the
provision. In addition, the Audit Committee is apprised by management at least twice a year on the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
The accumulated provision for losses on both the accrual and nonaccrual loan portfolio decreased by $364 million (Table 15). This decrease comprises a release of provision for losses on loans (excluding guarantees) of $404 million and a positive translation adjustment of $40 million during FY 2007. The decrease was primarily due to the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD) and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
Treatment of Protracted Arrears
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. This policy is conditional on members agreeing to implement certain requirements including an acceptable structural adjustment program, adopting a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors, and continuing to service their obligations to IBRD and other multilateral creditors on time.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. During FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro, formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in 1996. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, for additional information.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD's commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to reduce funding costs through its borrowing activities and to meet the financial needs
of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD's funding, investment and asset/ liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the counterparty credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty. Collateral held includes cash and government securities.
For foreign exchange and derivative products IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While contractual principal amount is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD.
When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the “net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD's exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note G-Credit Risk.
Table 16 provides details of IBRD's estimated credit exposure on its investments (excluding externally-managed assets-$l,519 million at June 30, 2007, $1,443 million at June 30, 2006) and swaps (excluding those executed with borrowing member countries and non-affiliated organizations), net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The decrease in the proportion of A rated investments and the corresponding increase in AA and AAA rated investments reflect (i) an overall decrease in the size of the investment portfolio, (ii) an upgrade of Japanese Government securities from the A to the AA bracket with the effect partially offset by a decrease in investments in those securities, and
(iii)	an increase in investments in AAA agency mortgage-backed securities. After the effects of exposure netting arrangements across multiple transactions with a single counterpart, the credit exposure from swaps increased from $4,375 million at June 30, 2006 to $6,417 million at June 30, 2007. The swap credit exposure of $6,417 million is offset by collateral of $4,242 million which results in a total net swap exposure of $2,175 million.
Table 16 does not include exposures due to swaps executed with IBRD clients including (i) Borrowers ($11 million swap exposure), the IFFIm (no current swap exposure) and CCRIF (no current swap exposure).
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily changes in interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD's exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD's portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each loan product and liquid asset at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product and liquid asset in accordance with the particular requirements for that product or liquid asset and within prescribed risk parameters. The current value information is used in the asset/liability management process.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and liabilities.
Table 17 details the current value information of
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD's equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio shifts from pool loans to LIBOR based loans, the sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates will increase.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD's existing loans has traditionally helped limit
the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings on its loan portfolio. Such cost pass-through loans currently account for 59% of the existing outstanding loan portfolio (61% at the end of FY 2006). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and longterm fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools
is currently considerably higher than IBRD's new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool from FY 2008. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans. This debt overhang presents a risk of loss to IBRD because the debt carries fixed interest rates.
Over-funding of the multicurrency loan pool will reach a maximum of approximately $2.3 billion in FY 2017. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the interest rate characteristics of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond FY 2008 through the use of forward-starting swaps. IBRD began executing these forward-starting swaps in FY 2000 and as of June 30, 2007, the overhang was within acceptable guidelines. Further prepayments of the multicurrency loan pool will create additional overhang debt, which may also need to be swapped to floating-rate liabilities. The cost to date of executing these defeasance swaps has been approximately $708 million. The cost of the overhang will vary with interest rates and prepayments.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which currently account for 41% of the existing loan portfolio (39% at the end of FY 2006), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of noncost pass-though products will grow.
The interest rate risk on IBRD's liquid asset portfolio, which includes the risk that the value of assets in the liquid portfolio will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates, is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD's assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To
mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has executed some overlay interest rate swaps.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD's policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD's ability to better absorb unexpected losses from arrears of loan repayments regardless of the market environment.
Figure 9 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at the end of FY 2007 and FY 2006.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, refer to Section 4-Liquidity Management.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal control that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates. Since 1996, IBRD has used a COSO -based integrated internal control framework.
The operational risk management framework used by IBRD involves the following core steps:
Key operational risks and mitigating controls (including risks and controls over financial reporting) are identified and documented using a combination of tools including business process maps and risk and control self assessments. Tailored risk and control categories are also applied consistently across business units.
Operational risks are evaluated based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters. The inherent risks of potential misstatements in financial reporting are also assessed.
The design and operating effectiveness of key controls over financial reporting are evaluated using self assessment workshops, independent walk through tests of processes, independent compliance testing by IBRD’s internal audit department, quality assurance testing by management and annual internal representation letters from business unit managers.
Action plans are developed for issues identified and followed up on a periodic basis.
Key risks and control weaknesses are evaluated on an annual basis by an internal panel.
The panel evaluates and categorizes these to determine if they pose a threat to management's ability to make a positive assertion on the adequacy of internal controls surrounding IBRD's external financial reporting.
The results of the work undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are reported to the Audit Committee through an annual report.
On a periodic basis, operational risks and controls are assessed and reviewed to monitor significant changes.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Since FY 1997 IBRD's management has made an annual assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO. Concurrently since FY 1997, IBRD's external auditors have provided an attestation report that management's assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external
financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report, that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IBRD's internal control over external financial reporting. As of June 30, 2007 no such significant changes occurred.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are those processes which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure by IBRD. Management has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of such controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the President and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2007.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of a borrower's risk rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities. IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD's total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD's provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related policies and Note D-Loans, Guarantees and Derivatives for Borrowers.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under the current value basis of reporting, IBRD carries all of its financial assets and liabilities at estimated values. Under the reported basis, applying FAS 133 as amended, IBRD carries its investments, all derivatives, and qualifying hybrid debt instruments on a fair value basis. When possible, fair values are determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rates, exchange rates and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the financial statements.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters; ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally; and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
IBRD participates, along with IFC and MIGA, in pension and postretirement benefit plans that cover substantially all of their staff members. All costs, assets and liabilities associated with the plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are subsequently shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. The underlying actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and funded status associated with these plans are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. For further details, please refer to Notes to Financial Statements-Note K-Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
In FY 2007, Operating Income decreased to $1,659 million from $1,740 million in FY 2006, driven by decreases in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and an increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs. Net loss on a reported basis was $140 million in FY 2007 compared to a net loss of $2,389 million in FY 2006. This decrease in net loss was primarily due to the reduction in net unrealized losses due to IBRD's application of FAS 133 as amended. For more details please refer to Net Unrealized (Losses) Gains on Non-trading Derivatives and Borrowings Measured at Fair Value per FAS 133 as Amended, discussed later in this section.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2007, short-term interest rates for the U.S. dollar were higher than for the comparative period in FY 2006. Figure 10 illustrates these general trends for the six-month LIBOR U.S dollar rates. It is this short-term interest rate structure which drives loan interest income.
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr MayJun
In contrast, the current value adjustment on the loan portfolio is based on interest rates which are dependent upon the term structure of the maturity profile of the loans. In the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007	there was a slight downward shift in these rates compared to the same period in FY 2006 (see Figure
11	for U.S. dollars). As a result there was a positive current value adjustment to the loan portfolio.
Figure 11: IBRD's U.S. Dollar Funding Curve
Operating Income
IBRD's Operating Income is broadly comprised of a net spread on interest-earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, less provisions for losses on loans and guarantees and administrative expenses. Table 18 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs, on a reported basis.
The decrease of $81 million in Operating Income is explained by the following factors.
A $319 million decrease in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2007, provisioning requirements were reduced by $405 million in comparison with the reduction of $724 million during FY2006. This reflects the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding, the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD) and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
A $269 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs as a result of higher returns on equity funded loans resulting from the higher average shortterm interest rates.
FY 2006 versus FY 2005
FY 2006 Operating Income was $1,740 million, compared to $1,320 million for FY 2005. The increase in Operating Income is explained by the following factors.
A $274 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs as a result of higher returns on equity funded loans resulting from the rise in market interest rates.
A $222 million increase in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2006, provisioning requirements were reduced by $724 million in comparison with the reduction of $502 million during FY2005. This reflects the combined impact of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume and distribution of loans and guarantees outstanding, the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IBRD), and developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
Loan interest income, net of funding costs Debt funded Equity funded Net interest income Other loan income
Release of Provision for losses on loans and guarantees Investment income, net of funding costs Net noninterest expense Operating Income
Board of Governors-Approved Transfers Net unrealized (losses) gains on non-trading derivatives and borrowings measured at fair value, per FAS 133 as amended
Net (Loss) Income—Reported Basis
Net Interest Income FY 2007 versus FY 2006
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased by $269 million largely due to higher returns on the equity funded component ofloans resulting from the rise in market rates.
FY 2006 versus FY 2005
Loan interest income, net of funding costs, increased by $274 million largely due to higher returns on the equity funded component ofloans resulting from the rise in market rates. In FY 2005, loan interest income net of funding costs were lower primarily due to the negative impact of the re-pricing lag on pool loans.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 19.
FY 2007 versus FY 2006
Net noninterest expense increased by $6 million primarily due to a $21 million increase in contractual services and equipment and building expenses partially offset by a decrease of $14 million in pension and other postretirement benefits.
FY 2006 versus FY 2005
Net noninterest expense increased by $37 million primarily due to a $28 million increase in pension and other postretirement benefits and a $10 million increase in other expenses.
NET UNREALIZED (LOSSES) GAINS ON NON-TRADING DERIVATIVES AND BORROWINGS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE, PER FAS 133 AS AMENDED
IBRD's application of FAS 133 as amended results in accounting for all derivatives and certain debt instruments at fair value. IBRD is a net U.S. dollar variable rate payer on U.S. dollar interest rate swaps and currency swaps. IBRD is thus effectively short interest rates. During FY 2007, IBRD experienced net unrealized losses of $842 million. Most of the losses for FY 2007 resulted from British pound-U.S. dollar, euro-U.S. dollar, and U.S. dollar-South African rand currency swaps. Since IBRD is typically a fixed rate receiver in British pound, euro and South African rand currency swaps, the rise in the yields of these currencies resulted in unrealized losses. Some of these losses were offset by gains in U.S. dollar interest rate swaps where IBRD is a net variable-rate payer. Since U.S. dollar yields, particularly at the short-end declined in FY 2007 IBRD experienced gains on its U.S. dollar interest rate swaps. Similarly, the effects of applying FAS 133 as amended resulted in net unrealized losses in FY 2006 primarily as a result of rising interest rates in the applicable currencies. It should be noted that at June 30, 2006, prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.155, embedded derivatives were bifurcated and fair valued under the reported basis, while the host instruments were accounted for on an amortized cost basis.
Economically, increases or decreases in the values of the derivatives are generally offset by corresponding decreases or increases in the values of the related borrowings and loans to the extent that such borrowings and loans are all marked-to-market. FAS 133 as amended, requires that all derivatives and certain debt instruments be marked-to-market. Thus, an asymmetry results in the reported financial statements when the value of economically offsetting transactions is reported on different bases. For management reporting purposes, IBRD has disclosed the Current Value financial statements in Tables 1 and 2 and believes that these statements make fully evident the risk management strategy employed by IBRD.
9.	GOVERNANCE
General Governance Management Changes
The Executive Directors are charged, under the Articles of Agreement with the selection of IBRD's President. Mr. Paul Wolfowitz resigned on June 30,
2007.	The Executive Directors have unanimously selected Mr. Robert Zoellick to be the next President; his appointment became effective July 1, 2007.
Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD's Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
Committee on Development Effectiveness
Audit Committee
Budget Committee
Personnel Committee
Ethics Committee
Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries. Other relevant selection criteria include seniority, continuity and relevant experience. Some or all of the responsibilities of individual committee members are performed by their alternates or advisors. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IBRD's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for reviewing the performance and recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an
ongoing basis and revised its terms of reference in FY 2004.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
The minutes of its meetings.
Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
“Statement(s) of the Chairman” and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Committee also reviews with the external auditor the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
Code of Ethics
IBRD strives to foster and maintain a positive work environment that supports the ethical behavior of its
staff. To facilitate this effort, IBRD has in place a Code of Professional Ethics-Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff (including managers, consultants, and temporary employees) worldwide.
This Code is available in nine languages on IBRD's website, www.worldbank.org. Staff relations, conflicts of interest, and operational issues, including the accuracy of books and records, are key elements of the Code.
In addition to the Code, an essential element of appropriate conduct is compliance with the obligations embodied in the Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules, and Administrative Rules, the violation of which may result in disciplinary actions. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with IBRD's ethical goals. In support of its efforts on ethics, IBRD offers a variety of methods for informing staff of these resources. Many of these efforts are headed by the following groups:
The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct provides leadership, management and oversight for IBRD's ethics infrastructure including the Ethics Helpline, a consolidated conflicts of interest disclosure/resolution system, financial disclosure, ongoing training to both internal and external audiences, and communication resources.
The Department of Institutional Integrity is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects worldwide. The Department also investigates allegations of misconduct by IBRD staff, and trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption in IBRD-funded projects.
The Department reports directly to the President and is composed of professionals from a range of disciplines including financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and IBRD staff with operational experience.
IBRD has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received regarding accounting, internal control and auditing matters.
IBRD offers both the Ethics Helpline, as well as a Fraud and Corruption hotline run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free hotline in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. In addition there are other methods by which the Department of Institutional Integrity may receive allegations, including directly by email, anonymously, or through confidential submission through its website, as well as the postal service and telephone.
Auditor Independence
In FY 2003, the Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
In FY 2004, IBRD's external auditor, Deloitte and Touche, began a new five-year term and will have served 11 years as auditor upon completion of that term, pursuant to a one-time grandfathered exemption from the above-referenced ten-year limit. Even within a five-year term the service of the external auditors is subject to recommendation by the Audit Committee for annual reappointment and approval of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external
auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
Annual appointment of the external auditors.
Presentation of the external audit plan.
Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR CURRENT VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD's Condensed Current Value Balance Sheet at June 30, 2006 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 20 below. Similarly, IBRD's Condensed Current Value Statement of Income for the year ended June 30, 2006 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 21.
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission,
Currency Swaps (including Currency Forward Contracts): Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Duration: Duration provides an indication of the interest rate sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in its underlying yield,
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with applying the provisions of FAS 133 as amended) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves (where there are firm estimates available) divided by the sum ofloans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees and deferred loan income.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date,
FAS 133 as amended: FAS 133 as amended refers collectively to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” as amended by subsequent standards.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offered rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of sub-
scription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
New Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998.
Old Loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans:
Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding ofloans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option which gives the holder the right to enter into an interest rate or currency swap at a certain future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report accompanies the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified- Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time,
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2007. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2007. The independent accounting firm that audited the financial statements has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of IBRD’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IBRD has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IBRD. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IBRD’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IBRD in addition to reviewing IBRD’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management 's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Interna! Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“the COSO report”). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2007, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in the COSO report.
August 2, 2007
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30,2007, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2007. These financial statements are the responsibility of IBRD's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing, Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IBRD as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Notes A and N to the financial statements IBRD changed its method of accounting for its hybrid financial instruments to adopt the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 155, Accountingfor Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments. IBRD also adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, Employers ’Accountingfor Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, as further discussed in Notes A and K.
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDAs main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDAs membership by providing a combination of grants and financing on concessionary terms. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic income from pension and other
postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
On August 2, 2007, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are reflected in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1,1944” in Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of
the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1,1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR (1974 SDR).
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of restricted currencies (see Note B). Maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net receivable or payable MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of equity under Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For restricted currencies used in IBRD’s lending and investing operations, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Transfers Approved by the Board of Governors: In
accordance with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, the Board of Governors may exercise its reserved power to approve transfers to other entities for development purposes. These transfers, referred to as “Board of Governors-approved transfers”, are reported as expenses on the Statement of Income in the year of approval. The transfers may be funded from prior year’s Unallocated Net Income or Surplus. If the transfer is funded from Surplus, there is a concurrent transfer from Surplus to the current year’s Unallocated Net Income (Loss) within Retained Earnings in an amount equivalent to the expense recognized.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consists of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus and Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments) and Unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States
Government, its agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income or expense for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve is reduced when pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133a from prior years. At June 30, 2007, this amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments for prior fiscal years, the unrealized gains or losses on non-trading derivatives as defined by FAS 133, for prior fiscal years, and the cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 155 (which amended FAS 133) on July 1, 2006.
Unallocated Net Income (Loss) consists of the current fiscal year’s net income (loss) adjusted for Board of Governors-approved transfers, and the equivalent amount for transfers funded from Surplus.
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fee amortization is included in Interest
a. For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by subsequent Standards.
under Income from Loans on the Statement of Income.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans.
Exceptions were made to this practice during fiscal years 1996 and 2002 with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SaM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). These exceptions were based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in fiscal year 1996 which limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/ refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
When modifications are made to the terms of existing loans, IBRD performs an evaluation to determine the required accounting treatment, including; whether the modifications would result in the affected loans being accounted for as new loans, or as a continuation of the existing loans.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have been received by
IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Guarantees: IBRD generally provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD development policy lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IBRD on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
For guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, IBRD records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the financial statements.
Guarantee fee income received is deferred and amortized over the life of the guarantee.
IBRD records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. This provision, as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income, and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready, are included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the balance sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to
the related loan's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to countries with loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned borrower risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' ratings is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors. IBRD periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
Statement of Cash Flows: For the purpose of IBRD's Statement of Cash Flows, cash is defined as the amount of unrestricted currencies Due from Banks.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to enhance investment returns. These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment
securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IBRD under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IBRD's balance sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IBRD's balance sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital:
Payments on these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD’s name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the Balance Sheet.
Premises and Equipment: Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. IBRD computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the owned assets, which range between two and fifty years. For leasehold improvements, depreciation and amortization is computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life.
Borrowings: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues debt instruments of varying maturities denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates.
Following IBRD’s early adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments (FAS 155) effective July 1, 2006, IBRD has elected to apply fair value measurement to certain qualifying debt instruments in its borrowings portfolio which are hybrid financial instruments, with the changes in fair value being reported in net income. All other borrowings are reported on the Balance Sheet at amortized cost. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering are deferred and amortized over the period during which the bond is outstanding. Amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the Statement of Income.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities. In the borrowing portfolio, derivatives are used to take advantage of cost saving opportunities in non-target currencies in various capital markets. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133. The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the Statement of Income.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of FAS 133. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
IBRD uses derivative instruments in its investments, loans and borrowings portfolios and for asset/liability management purposes. It also offers derivatives intermediation services to clients. In applying FAS 133 for the purposes of financial statement reporting, IBRD has elected not to define any qualifying hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income. While IBRD believes that its hedging strategies achieve its objectives, the application of FAS 133 qualifying hedge criteria would not appropriately reflect IBRD’s risk management strategies.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Derivative financial instruments, all qualifying hybrid debt instruments and investment securities are recorded in IBRD’s financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note O. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial
instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for valuing IBRD’s financial instruments are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review. These models use market sourced inputs such as interest rates, exchange rates, and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgement, as does estimating prices when no external parameters exist.
Accountingfor Grant Expenses: IBRD recognizes an expense for grants, such as Contributions to Special Programs, and Board of Governors-approved transfers, when incurred.
Accounting and Reporting Developments: On July 1, 2006, IBRD early adopted FAS 155, which amends certain provisions of FAS 133 and FAS 140. As permitted by FAS 155, IBRD has elected to apply fair value measurement to all qualifying hybrid debt instruments in its borrowings portfolio. The impact of the adoption of FAS 155, as well as the related disclosure requirements, are discussed further in Note N.
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under U.S. GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after November 15, 2007 (Fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 for IBRD), and interim periods within those fiscal years. IBRD is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
In September 2006, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers' Accountingfor Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (FAS 158). FAS 158 requires employers to recognize on their balance sheets the funded status of their defined benefit postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. Actuarial gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period are recognized as part of Other Comprehensive Income, to the extent they are not recognized as components of the net periodic benefit cost. Additionally, upon adoption, FAS 158 requires unrecognized net actuarial gains or losses and unrecognized prior service costs to be recognized in the ending balance of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income. These amounts will be adjusted as they are subsequently recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost, based upon the current amortization and recognition requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers' Accountingfor Pensions (FAS 87) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (FAS 106). FAS 158 is applicable to IBRD's financial statements as of June 30, 2007 and the impact of its adoption is discussed further in Note K.
In February 2007, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159). This standard permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. It is effective for annual periods beginning after November 15, 2007 (Fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 for IBRD). IBRD is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
NOTE B—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock At June 30, 2007, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares (1,581,724 shares—June 30, 2006), of which 1,573,349 shares (1,572,661 shares—June 30, 2006) had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,486 million ($11,483 million—June 30, 2006) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,315 million ($178,235 million—June 30, 2006) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, in the event a member withdraws from IBRD, the withdrawing member is entitled to receive the value of its shares payable to the extent the member does not have any outstanding obligations to IBRD. IBRD’s Articles of Agreement also state that the former member has continuing obligations to IBRD after withdrawal. Specifically, the former member remains fully liable for its entire capital subscription, including both the previously paid-in portion and the callable portion, so long as any part of the loans or guarantees contracted before it ceased to be a member, are outstanding.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending and investing operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Maintenance of Value: As of June 30, 2007, IBRD had positive $108 million (positive $52 million—June 30, 2006) of net MOV amounts classified as a component of equity. Of this amount, IBRD had a net MOV payable of $260 million ($177 million—June 30, 2006) relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, which become payable by IBRD on the same terms as other MOV obligations only after such currencies are repaid to IBRD. The remaining amount is a net MOV receivable of $152 million ($125 million—June 30, 2006), representing receivables for countries that have amounts in arrears for two years or more. IBRD still considers these MOV receivables in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned.
Membership: Following Montenegro’s declaration of independence from Serbia on June 3, 2006, the Republic of Serbia assumed the membership of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) in IBRD in July 2006, retaining SaM’s existing subscription and voting power.
On January 18, 2007, the Republic of Montenegro (Montenegro) became a member of IBRD. At that time, Montenegro agreed to assume responsibility for its portion of the financial obligations formerly undertaken by SaM with IBRD.
NOTE C—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, corporate and asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, currency swaps (including currency forward contracts), interest rate swaps, options and swaptions.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA-; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral
organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country, with a minimum credit rating of AA-. For corporate and asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks or other financial institutions. IBRD may only invest in time deposits issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A-.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to expiration. Futures are settled on a daily basis. For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options. IBRD does
not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 there were no short sales included in Payable for Investment Securities Purchased on the Balance Sheet.
As of June 30, 2007, IBRD had received $288 million ($154 million—June 30, 2006) of securities under resale agreements. None of these securities had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements as of June 30, 2007 or June 30, 2006.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IBRD had included $24 million of unrealized gains in income (unrealized gains of $4 million—June 30, 2006 and unrealized gains of $3 million—June 30, 2005).
NOTE G—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers for loans, guarantees or related derivatives. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as pricing loans using IBRD’s own cost of borrowing and partial interest charge waivers conditioned on timely payment that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD’s continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectibility risk is covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities, IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through
application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. As of June 30, 2007, IBRD had received collateral of $4,264 million ($3,655 million—June 30, 2006) in connection with swap agreements, of which $3,049 million ($2,163 million—June 30, 2006) had been transferred under security lending agreements.
As the transfer of this collateral did not meet the requirements of a sale, the collateral has not been included in the assets of IBRD.
IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close-out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
NOTE J—MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS
Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with one or more of its affiliated organizations, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses in accordance with administration agreements with donors. Specified uses could include, for example, cofinancing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs, and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/or IDA, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD's funds, nor are they included in the assets of IBRD.
Trust fund execution may be carried out in one of two ways: Recipient-executed or IBRD-executed.
Recipient-executed trust funds involve activities carried out by a recipient third-party “executing agency”. IBRD enters into agreements with and disburses funds to those recipients, who then exercise spending authority to meet the objectives and comply with terms stipulated in the agreements.
IBRD-executed trust funds involve IBRD execution of activities as described in relevant administration agreements with donors which define the terms and conditions for use of the funds. Spending authority is exercised by IBRD, subject to any restrictions contained in the administration agreements. The executing agency services provided by IBRD vary and include for example, activity preparation, analytical and advisory activities and project-related activities, including procurement of goods and services.
In some trust funds, execution is allocated between Recipient-executed and IBRD-executed portions. Decisions on assignment of funding resources between the two types of execution may be made on an ongoing basis; therefore the execution of a portion of these available resources may not yet be assigned.
IBRD also enters into agreements for Limited Fiduciary arrangements under which IBRD provides specific administrative or financial services with a limited fiduciary or operational role. These arrangements include, for example, administration of debt service trust funds, fiscal agency services and other more specialized limited funds management roles. Funds are held and disbursed in accordance with instructions from donors or, in some cases, external governance structure or body operating on behalf of donors.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IBRD, as an executing agency, disbursed $171 million ($153 million—June 30, 2006) of trust fund program funds.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IBRD recognized $17 million ($17 million—June 30, 2006 and $17 million—June 30, 2005) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income. Fees collected but not yet earned totaling $53 million at June 30, 2007 ($44 million—June 30, 2006) are included in Other Assets (Miscellaneous) and in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities, correspondingly, on the Balance Sheet.
Investment Management Services IBRD offers investment management services to two non-affiliated organizations and one affiliated organization. Under these arrangements, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of these institutions, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolios.
In addition, IBRD offers asset management and technical advisory services to central banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program, for capacity building and other development purposes and receives a fee for these services.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities is included in service fee revenues described in Note I.
At June 30, 2007, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $12,952 million ($11,301 million—June 30, 2006). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
NOTE K—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD, IFC and MIGA participate in a defined benefit SRP, a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a PostEmployment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of their staff members.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The PEBP provides certain pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
In December 2003, the United States Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was enacted. The Act established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provided a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, the U.S. Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approved IBRD’s participation in the Medicare Retiree Drug Subsidy Program. The effects of the subsidy and the related disclosures have been reflected in the financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007,	the year in which IBRD received its first subsidy payment of $0.7 million for Medicare Part D. This payment is for the joint benefit of IBRD, IFC and MIGA.
IBRD uses a June 30 measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The amounts presented below reflect IBRD’s respective share of the costs, assets and liabilities of the plans.
All costs, assets and liabilities associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees’ respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are then shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost
sharing ratio. IDA, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their proportionate share of any contributions made to these plans by IBRD. Contributions to these plans are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006, and June 30, 2005:
*lndlcates amount less than $0.5 million
a.	The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $5 million reduction in net periodic pension cost.
IDAs share of the net periodic pension in come/cost is included as a payable to/receivable from IDA in Miscellaneous Assets and Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous liabilities on the balance sheet.
The expenses for the SRP, RSBP and PEBP are included in Administrative Expenses. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006, and June 30,
2005,	expenses for these plans of $16 million, $28 million and $16 million, respectively, were allocated to
IFC, and $0.1 million, $2 million and $1 million, respectively, were allocated to MIGA.
As described in Note A under Accounting and Reporting Developments, on June 30, 2007, IBRD prospectively adopted FAS 158 as required, which resulted in a credit to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income of $63 million. Further details are provided in the disclosures on page 87.
The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets, and funded status associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, and June 30, 2006. Since the assets for the PEBP are not held in an irrevocable trust separate from the assets of
IBRD, they do not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting and are therefore included in IBRD's investment portfolio. The assets of the PEBP are invested in fixed income instruments.
a.	The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $25 million reduction in the RSBP's Accumulated Benefit Obligation.
b.	Under FAS 158, and as noted in the following table, amounts that were previously reported as part of Prepaid Pension Costs or Liabilities under retirement plans are now reported within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Balance Sheet.
c.Net	amount recognized is reported as Assets Under Retirement Benefits Plans under Other Assets, or Liabilities Under Retirement Benefits Plans under Other Liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
The $2,309 million relating to SRP at June 30, 2007 ($1,925 million—June 30, 2006) is included in Assets Under Retirement Benefits Plans on the Balance Sheet. Of this amount, $884 million was attributable to IDA ($827 million—June 30, 2006) and is included
in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
The $15 million relating to RSBP at June 30, 2007 ($158 million —June 30, 2006) is also included in Assets Under Retirement Benefits Plans on the Balance Sheet.
The following tables present the amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and the incremental effect of adoption of FAS 158 on
individual line items on the Balance Sheet on June 30,
2007:
*lndicates amounts less than $0.5 million Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations.
The expected long-term rate of return for the SRP assets is a weighted average of the expected long-term
(10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the portfolio allocation. Asset class returns are developed using a forward-looking building block approach and are not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, real bond yield, and risk premium/spread (as appropriate). Other asset class
returns are derived from their relationship to equity and bond markets. The expected long-term rate of return for the RSBP is computed using procedures similar to those used for the SRP. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation is selected by reference to the year-end AAA and AA corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the fiscal year, they
exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service lives of the employee group.
The following tables present the weighted-average assumptions used in determining the projected benefit obligations and the net periodic pension costs for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006, and June 30, 2005:
The investment policy for the SRP and the RSBP is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective plan’s needs and goals, using a global diversified portfolio of various asset classes. Specifically, the long-term asset allocation is based on an analysis that incorporates expected returns by asset class as well as volatilities and correlations across asset classes and the liability profile of the respective plans. This analysis, referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides estimates of potential future contribu-
tions and future asset and liability balances. Plan assets are managed by external investment managers and monitored by IBRD’s pension investment department. The pension plan assets are invested in diversified portfolios of public equity, fixed income, and alternative investments. The fixed-income and public equity asset classes are rebalanced on a monthly basis. The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 and the respective target allocation by asset category for the SRP and RSRP:
Estimated Future Benefits Payments	subsequent five years. The expected benefit payments
The following table shows the benefit payments	are based on the same assumptions used to measure
expected to be paid in each of the next five years and	the benefit obligation at June 30, 2007:
Expected Contributions
IBRD’s contribution to the SRP and RSBP varies from year to year, as determined by the Pension Finance Committee, which bases its judgement on the results of annual actuarial valuations of the assets and
liabilities of the SRP and RSBP. The best estimate of the amount of contributions expected to be paid to the SRP and RSBP for IBRD and IDA during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2007 is $103 million and $59 million, respectively.
Based on an evaluation of IBRD’s operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers.
The following table presents IBRD’s loan outstanding balances and associated loan income, by geographic region, as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006:
In millions of U.S. dollars
a. Represents loans to IFC, an affiliated organization.
NOTE M—COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under U.S GAAP, are excluded from net income. For IBRD, comprehensive income comprises the cumulative effects of a change in accounting principle related to
The following tables present the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006, and June 30, 2005:
In millions of U.S. dollars
the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, pension-related items, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, loans to one country generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income; this amounted to $641 million. Loan income comprises interest, commitment fees, loan origination fees and prepayment premia, net of waivers.
NOTE N—NET UNREALIZED GAINS (LOSSES) ON NON-TRADING DERIVATIVES AND BORROWINGS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE, PER FAS 133 AS AMENDED
On July 1, 2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. This standard requires that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 133, the derivative instruments in the borrowing portfolio were recorded using synthetic accounting. The derivative instruments in the investment portfolio were, and continue to be, recorded at fair value in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accountingfor Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Upon adoption of FAS 133, IBRD’s net income was increased by $219 million, and an additional $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income. The allocation between net income and other comprehensive income was based upon the hedging relationships that existed under generally accepted
accounting principles before the initial application of FAS 133.
The $500 million difference between the carrying value and the fair value of those derivatives that were hedging a cash flow exposure prior to the initial application of FAS 133, was included in Other Comprehensive Income at the time FAS 133 was implemented. This amount is being reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
Any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to adoption of FAS 133 were recorded in income at the time of implementation, and were offset by the fair value adjustments on the related derivative instruments. The fair value adjustments on the bonds are being amortized over the remaining lives of the related bonds.
Adoption of FAS 155
On July 1, 2006, IBRD early adopted FAS 155, which amends certain provisions of FAS 133. IBRD elected to apply FAS 155 to all qualifying hybrid debt instruments. Upon adoption of this Standard, the
difference between the total carrying value of these debt instruments and their respective fair values amounted to $3,189 million, comprising $3,330 million in gross gains and $141 million in gross losses, determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. This amount was recognized as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings, as required by the Standard.
IBRD provides separate disclosure for the fair value amounts relating to hybrid debt instruments for which it has elected to apply FAS 155. These are
In millions of U.S. dollars
NOTE O—DERIVATIVES FOR CLIENT OPERATIONS
Included in Receivable from and Payable for Derivatives on the Balance Sheet are derivatives with Borrowing Countries and Non-Affiliated Organizations.
Borrowing Countries: These are currency and interest rate swap transactions executed between IBRD and its borrowers under master derivatives agreements.
Non-Affiliated Organizations: On September 29,
2006,	IBRD executed a master derivatives agreement with the International Finance Facility for Immunisation (IFFIm), a AAA-rated organization. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, several transactions were executed between IBRD and IFFIm
reported as Borrowings measured at fair value on the Balance Sheet. For reporting periods presented prior to the adoption of FAS 155, embedded derivatives in qualifying hybrid debt instruments were bifurcated and fair valued, while the host instruments were accounted for on an amortized cost basis.
The following table reflects the components of the effects of applying FAS 133 and FAS 155 for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006, and June 30,
2005.
under this arrangement, with notional amounts totaling $5 billion. Concurrently IBRD entered into offsetting transactions with market counterparties. In addition, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IBRD facilitated access to the financial markets for the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, by entering into a $20 million one year earthquake and weather derivative contract. As in the case of IFFIm, IBRD entered into an offsetting transaction with a market counterparty. IBRD has applied its normal commercial credit risk policies to these transactions.
Valuation Methods and Assumptions Due from Banks
The carrying amount of unrestricted and restricted currencies is considered a reasonable estimate of the fair value of these positions.
Investments
IBRD’s investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. Therefore, for the investment portfolio, no additional adjustment is necessary. Fair value is based on market quotations. Instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued using market-based methodologies and market information. (See Note A).
Net Loans Outstanding
All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by countries that are members of IBRD, except for those loans made to IFC. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does it believe there is a comparable market for its loans. The current value ofloans outstanding incorporates management’s best estimate of the probable expected cash flows of these instruments to IBRD.
The current value ofloans, including associated financial derivatives, is based on a discounted cash flow method. The estimated cash flows from principal repayments and interest are discounted using the rate at which IBRD would originate a similar loan at the
reporting date. The cash flows of these instruments are based on management’s best estimates taking into account market exchange rates and interest rates.
The current value of net loans outstanding also includes IBRD’s assessment of the appropriate credit risk, considering its history of collections from borrowers. This is reflected in the accumulated provision for loan losses.
Derivatives Receivable and Derivatives Payable
Certain derivatives, as defined by FAS 133, are recorded in the balance sheet at estimated fair value. The fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow method representing the estimated cost of replacing these contracts on that date. (See Note A).
Borrowings
The fair value of borrowings is predominantly based on discounted cash flow techniques using appropriate market yield curves.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities
These amounts are generally short-term in nature. Therefore, the carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The difference between the carrying value and fair value of other assets is due to the carrying value of debt issuance costs being included in other assets while the fair value of these costs is included as part of the fair value of borrowings.
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published special purpose financial statements. The special purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’S special purpose financial statements and, as such, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The special purpose financial statements have been audited by an independent accounting firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Board of Executive Directors and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ report accompanies the audited special purpose financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal controls for external financial reporting, which are subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and are revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial presentations in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2007. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements, as of June 30, 2007. The independent accounting firm that audited the special purpose financial statements has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of IDA’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Board of Executive Directors of IDA has appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities. The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA’s reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association
We have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Controls over External Financial Reporting, that the Internationa! Development Association (“IDA”) maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“the COSO report”). Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over external Financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, testing, and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over external financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to IDA’s special purpose financial statements as of June 30, 2007, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in the COSO report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association
We have audited the accompanying special purpose statement of sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2007 and the related special purpose statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in accumulated deficit, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2007. These special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the International Development Association’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these special purpose financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the special purpose financial statements are free of material misstatement An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the special purpose financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall special purpose financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying special purpose financial statements were prepared to reflect the sources and applications of development resources, operations, and cash flows of the International Development Association to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association, as discussed in Note A to the special purpose financial statements, and are not intended to be a presentation in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or International Financial Reporting Standards.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the sources and applications of development resources of the International Development Association as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended June 30, 2007 in conformity with the accounting principles described in Note A to the special purpose financial statements.
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Governors, management, and members of the International Development Association. However, under the International Development Association’s Articles of Agreement, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited.
Member of
Detoitte Touche Tohmatsu
NOTE A—ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
Purpose and Affiliated Organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization that was established on September 24, 1960. IDAs main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed areas of the world included in IDAs membership, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees. IDA has three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these other organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies
Due to the nature and organization of IDA, these financial statements have been prepared for the specific purpose of reflecting the sources and applications of member subscriptions and contributions and other development resources. These financial statements are not intended to be a presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America or with International Financial Reporting Standards. These special purpose financial statements have been prepared to comply with Article VI, Section 11 (a) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA, and are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies outlined below.
The preparation of these special purpose financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the computation of estimated fair values of development credits and accumulated provision for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).
On August 2, 2007, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Basis of Accounting
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. That is, the effects of transactions and other events are recognized when they occur (and not as cash or its equivalent is received or paid) and are recorded in the accounting records and reported in the financial statements of the periods to which they relate.
IDA follows a special basis of accounting for member subscriptions and contributions and for development credits as described under the discussion on significant accounting policies below.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s special purpose financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and U.S. dollars. Applications of development resources and sources of development resources are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Member Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits and development grants denominated in SDRs are reflected in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Other translation adjustments are shown in the Statement of Income.
Member Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Member Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are recorded based upon the full amount of Instruments of Commitment received from members upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Prior to effectiveness, only a portion of the Instruments of Commitment received are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions committed. A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives Instruments of Commitment from members for subscriptions and contributions of a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed. These receivables become due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed maturity schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due from certain members is conditional upon the respective member’s budgetary appropriation processes.
The Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income. The related subscription and contribution are recorded at the full undiscounted amount. The discount is recorded as unamortized discount on contributions (a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions Committed) and amortized over the projected encashment period.
Under the provisions governing replenishments, IDA must encash the notes or similar obligations of contributing members on an approximately pro rata basis. As discussed in the previous paragraph, donors sometimes contribute resources on an advanced or an accelerated basis. IDA holds these resources until they become available for disbursement on a pro rata basis.
Transfers to IDA from IBRD are recorded under Sources of Development Resources and are receivable upon approval by IBRD’s Board of Governors.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment agreements provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The local currency portion of subscriptions of Part II members are recorded as restricted under Member Subscriptions and Contributions unless released under an agreement between the member and IDA or used for administrative expenses. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions.
Following adoption by the Board of Governors on April 21, 2006 of a resolution authorizing additions to IDA’s resources to finance the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), any pledges received in the form of Instruments of Commitments for financing MDRI are recorded and accounted for in their entirety. Therefore, the full value of all Instruments of Commitments received is recorded as subscriptions and contributions. Correspondingly, the Instruments of Commitments are also recorded as subscriptions and contributions receivable in the Statement of Sources and Application of Development Resources.
Under IDA’s Articles of Agreement, a member may withdraw from membership in IDA at anytime. When a government ceases to be a member, it remains liable for all financial obligations undertaken by it to IDA, whether as a member, borrower, guarantor or otherwise. The Articles provide that upon withdrawal,
IDA and the government shall proceed to a settlement of accounts. If agreement is not reached within six months, standard arrangements are provided. Under these arrangements, IDA would pay to the government the lower of the member’s total paid-in subscriptions and contributions or the member’s proportionate share of IDA’s net assets. These funds would be paid as a proportionate share of all principal repayments received by IDA on loans made during the government’s membership.
Valuation
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, that until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1,1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR), and have also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Beginning July 1,
1986,	subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Prior to that date, subscriptions and contributions which had been disbursed or converted into other currencies were translated at market exchange rates in effect on dates of disbursement or conversion. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent within the member’s territories, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30,1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings.
Development Credits
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional loans to the poorest countries. These development credits are made to or guaranteed by member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain level and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending. Development credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35- or 40-year final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments. A new hard-term lending window was established in the Fourteenth Replenishment. Eligibility for this window is restricted to creditworthy IBRD/IDA blend countries with per capita incomes below the IDA operational cut-off and an active IBRD lending program. Lending terms include a 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace, and an interest charge in addition to standard IDA charges. The interest rate is set for each fiscal year and is derived from the fixed-rate equivalent of IBRD’s lending rate reduced by 200 basis points.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. Development credits are carried in the Special Purpose Financial Statements at the full face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations.
It is the practice of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to or guaranteed by a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, charges that had been accrued on development credits outstanding to the member which remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored. A decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis.
There is significant credit risk in the portfolio of development credits. Management continually monitors this credit risk. No provision for credit losses, other than accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI, has been established.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June
1987,	the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Development Grants
IDA is authorized to provide a significant portion of financing beginning with the Thirteenth Replenishment as development grants. The annual net income transfers from IBRD for fiscal years 1997 through 2007 also authorized the use of such funds for IDA development grants.
Effective July 1, 2005, development grants are charged to income upon approval by IDA’s Executive Directors. In previous periods, development grants were charged to income upon signing of the grant agreement by the recipient country.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
At inception of the guarantees, IDA records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IDA, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
Guarantee fee income received is deferred and amortized over the period of benefit.
The unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready are included in Other Resources, net on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
HIPC Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched during 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens. As part of this process, the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund was established on November 7, 1996. It is administered by IDA and constituted by funds of donors including IBRD, to help beneficiaries reduce their overall debt, including IDA debt.
Under the Enhanced HIPC Framework, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors on January 27, 2000, implementation mechanisms include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, to be reimbursed to IDA by the IBRD/IDA component of the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund; and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA
resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon approval of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative by the Executive Directors of IDA, the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the accumulated provision for debt relief, and as a charge to income.
This estimate is subject to periodic revision. The accumulated provision for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the decision point), the country becomes eligible for debt relief up to the nominal value equivalent of one third of the net present value of the principal component of the total HIPC debt relief committed to the specific country. A completion point is reached when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative. When the country reaches its completion point it becomes eligible for the full amount of debt relief provided under this initiative.
MDRI
Debt relief provided under the MDRI is in addition to existing debt relief commitments provided by IDA and other creditors under the HIPC Debt Initiative. Additional resources for financing IDA's costs of providing debt relief under MDRI will be provided by donors over time under a resolution of IDA's Board of Governors adopted on April 21, 2006. Such resources are added to IDA's resources and are accounted for as subscriptions and contributions.
Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
Following the Executive Directors' approval of IDA's participation in the MDRI, IDA provided in full for the estimated probable write-off of the principal component of debt relief to be delivered under the MDRI for the HIPC eligible countries confirmed by the Executive Directors as eligible for relief at that time. Subsequently, IDA makes additional provisions for new pre-decision point countries deemed to have met the HIPC Initiative income and indebtedeness criteria, as determined by the Executive Directors.
The adequacy of the accumulated provision for HIPC and MDRI is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, including
estimates of decision and completion points dates. IDA periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for HIPC and MDRI. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
The provision is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding developments credits under the accumulated provision for debt relief and as a charge to income. Following the start of the MDRI implementation on July 1, 2006, the applicable development credits are written off when the country reaches the completion point and the related provision reduced accordingly.
Cash and Liquid Investments
IDA considers unrestricted cash as well as securities held in the investment portfolio, as an element of liquidity in the Statement of Cash Flows, since they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
IDA carries its investment securities and related financial instruments at fair value, using trade date accounting. The first-in-first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in income from Investments on the Statement of Income.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements, Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received
Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at historical cost. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IDA under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IDA's Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
As part of its portfolio management strategy, IDA invests in the following financial instruments.
Asset-backed Securities: IDA may only invest in asset-backed securities with a AAA credit rating.
Currency Swaps: IDA is authorized to enter into currency swaps including currency forward contracts.
Futures: IDA generally closes out most open positions in futures contracts prior to expiration. Therefore, cash receipts or payments are mostly limited to the change in market value of the futures contracts. Futures contracts generally entail daily settlement of the variation margin.
Government and Agency Obligations: Obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of member countries require a minimum credit rating of AA- if denominated in a currency other than the
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
home currency of the issuer, otherwise no rating is required.
Obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country require a minimum credit rating of AA-.
Options: IDA invests only in exchange-traded options. The initial price of an option contract is equal to the premium paid by the purchaser and is significantly less than the contract or notional amount.
Time Deposits: IDA may only invest in time deposits issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A-.
A summary of IDA’s investments, by instrument, at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 is as follows:
out netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
The credit risk exposure and contract value, as applicable, of these financial instruments at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 (prior to taking into account
For the purpose of risk management in the investment portfolio, IDA is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential accounting loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. IDA limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit limits have been established for each counterparty by type of instrument and maturity category.
In addition, IDA has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable close-
Exchange traded instruments are deemed to have no material credit risk. All outstanding futures and options contracts at the end of June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 were interest rate contracts.
As of June 30, 2007, IDA had received $562 million ($602 million—June 30, 2006) of securities under resale agreements. Of these instruments held by IDA, $215 million ($479 million—June 30, 2006) has been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements. None of these securities have been included in the assets of IDA.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IDA maintained a line of credit with an independent financial institution. The facility, totaling $1 billion, was created for the joint benefit of IBRD, IDA and MIGA. The line of credit is used to cover any overnight overdrafts that may occur due to failed trades. The terms of this facility provide for a usage fee on any outstanding balance at 0.15% per annum and fluctuating interest per annum on the overnight borrowings calculated at 200 basis points above the Federal Funds Rate. In addition, IDA maintained an intra-day overdraft facility of $1 billion with another independent financial institution for the joint benefit of IBRD, IDA and MIGA. The terms of the facility provide for a basic annual overdraft usage fee of $325,000 and a daily overnight borrowing fee calculated at the rate of 12.5 basis points per annum above the provider's monthly average daily effective Federal Funds Rate.
NOTE C—MEMBER SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2007, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $31,178 million ($10,048 million—June 30, 2006) of which $382 million ($585 million—June 30, 2006) was due and $30,796 million ($9,463 million—June 30, 2006) was not yet due.
Restricted notes on account of member subscriptions at June 30, 2007 were $50 million ($46 million—June 30, 2006).
Fourteenth Replenishment (IDA14): The IDA 14 replenishment was approved by the Board of Governors on April 13, 2005 and effective on January 24, 2006.
During the period July 1, 2005 to June 30, 2008, IDA is expected to provide concessional financing of about $33 billion (SDR 22 billion), net of the structural financing gap in donors' contributions, and includes a significant portion to be provided as grants. Of this amount, new donor contributions are expected to total about $22 billion (SDR 15 billion), including contributions for forgone reflows due to debt relief provided by IDA under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI.
Donors agreed to provide HIPC-related contributions to IDA to cover IDA’s HIPC costs during the Fourteenth Replenishment. Such contributions can be made either directly to IDA or through the World Bank component of the HIPC Trust Fund, which are then transferred to IDA. Donors receive voting rights for these contributions.
As of June 30, 2007, IDA had received HIPC-related contributions of $1,146 million which have been
corded in subscriptions and contributions paid in on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Donor Financing of MDRI: Resources for financing IDA's costs of providing debt relief under MDRI are being provided by donors under the Board of Governors’ resolution adopted in April 2006. These resources are accounted for as subscriptions and contributions.
As of June 30, 2007, 32 donors to the MDRI had issued Instruments of Commitment (IoCs) totaling $25,184 million at the agreed replenishment exchange rate, representing 69% of total costs based on the MDRI resolution; this includes firm (unqualified) donor commitments covering 11% of the total costs based on the MDRI resolution. IoCs can contain unqualified or qualified commitments. Under an unqualified commitment a contributing member agrees to pay a specified amount of its subscription and contribution without qualification. A qualified commitment is still subject to obtaining necessary parliamentary or legislative approvals. Subscriptions and contributions made under IoCs become available for commitment for development credits, development grants and guarantees by IDA in accordance with the IDA commitment authority framework as approved by the Executive Directors. Under the MDRI resolution, contributions provided under qualified commitments will become available for IDA's commitment authority once the IoC becomes unqualified.
The following table summarizes by donor country the IoCs received under the MDRI resolution as of June 30, 2007.
Membership: Following Montenegro’s declaration of independence from Serbia on June 3, 2006, the Republic of Serbia assumed the membership of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) in IDA in July 2006, retaining SaM’s existing subscription and voting power.
On January 18, 2007, the Republic of Montenegro (Montenegro) became a member of IDA. At that time Montenegro agreed to assume responsibility for its portion of the financial obligations formerly undertaken by SaM with IDA.
IBRD’s Board of Governors has approved aggregate transfers to IDA totaling $9,157 million through June 30, 2007 ($8,357 million—June 30, 2006) of which $800 million was approved and transferred in September 2006 and $140 million was transferred in January 2007. The aggregate transfers of $9,245 million reported in the above table differs from the amount of aggregate transfers approved due to exchange rate movements on the value of transfers that were approved in SDR.
At June 30, 2007, $70 million was receivable from IBRD ($210 million—June 30, 2006) in accordance with the donor encashment schedule for IDA’s Thirteenth Replenishment.
A grant of $150 million was approved by IFC and received by IDA during the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007.
NOTE E—DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
Charges
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of IDA credits are set annually by the Board of Executive Directors of IDA. For the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007 the rate for undisbursed credits was set at 0.20 percent (June 30, 2006-0.30 percent). For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 the rate has been set at 0.10 percent.
All outstanding IDA credits carry a service charge of 0.75 percent per annum. This rate has been in effect since FY 1966.
In addition to the standard service charge of 0.75 percent per annum, there are interest charges on credits made under IDA’s hard-term lending window which is available to eligible recipients. The interest charge is set for each fiscal year and is derived from the fixed-rate equivalent of IBRD’s lending rate reduced by 200 basis points. For the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007	the rate for hard-term lending was set at 4 percent (June 30, 2006-3 percent). The rate is fixed for the life of the credit. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, $264 million in credits were approved under these terms ($149 million in FY06). At June 30, 2007, $178 million of development credits were outstanding under the hard-term lending window ($nil—June 30, 2006). For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, the rate for hard-term lending has been set at 4.20 percent.
Currency Composition
The currency composition of IDA's development credits outstanding at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 is as follows:
Overdue Amounts
At June 30, 2007, there were no principal or charges on development credits in accrual status which were overdue by more than three months.
Effective November 27, 2006, all credits to, or guaranteed by, Central African Republic were restored to accrual status following the clearance of all overdue payments of principal and charges due to IDA by the borrower. As a result, income from credits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 increased by $16 million representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, all IDA development credits outstanding to SaM were restored to accrual status following management's determination that a suitable period of policy and payments performance had passed subsequent to the clearance of all arrears to IBRD in January 2002. As a
result, income from credits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, increased by $1 million, representing income that would have been accrued in previous fiscal years had these credits not been in nonaccrual status.
Accumulated Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
On June 23, 2006, the Executive Directors approved the implementation of the MDRI commencing July 1,
2006.	During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, $32,555 million of development credits outstanding to countries that had reached their completion points under the HIPC Debt Initiative were written off and the related provision reduced accordingly.
a.	Includes amounts written off on July 1, 2006 under the MDRI.
Sale of credits under buy-down mechanism
Under the buy-down mechanism, IDA enters into an arrangement with third-party donors who make payments on the credits through a trust fund until the borrower reaches agreed performance goals. At that time the Trust Fund pays IDA an amount based on the present value of the principal reflows in return for the assignment of the debt due under the credit, which the trust fund then cancels. The difference between the nominal value of the credit and the amount received is
recognized as an expense when IDA receives the payment from the trust fund.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, two credits with a book value of $44 million were sold for $17 million under this buy-down mechanism to the Polio Eradication Trust Fund. This buy-down resulted in a charge against income of $27 million.
Guarantees
Guarantees of $189 million at June 30, 2007 ($190 million—June 30, 2006) were not included in IDA’s Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources. These outstanding amounts represent the maximum potential undiscounted future payments that IDA could be required to make under these guarantees.
The existing guarantees issued by IDA expire between 2011 and 2026.
At June 30, 2007, liabilities related to obligations under guarantees of $11 million ($12 million—June 30, 2006), have been included in Other resources, net
on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
Segment Reporting
Based on an evaluation of its operations, management has determined that IDA has only one reportable segment.
Charge income comprises service charges and interest charges on outstanding development credit balances, commitment charges on undisbursed development credit balances and guarantee fee income.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, development credits to two countries generated in excess of ten percent of charge income. Loan income from these two countries was $189 million and $75 million.
The following table presents IDA’s development credits outstanding and associated charge income, by geographic region, at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006.
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
NOTE F—FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Investments: IDA carries its investments at fair value. These fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The fair value of short-term financial instruments approximates their carrying value.
Development Credits: IDA’s development credits have a significant grant element because of the concessional nature of IDA's terms. Discounting the future cash flows from IDA's development credits using government reference rates represented by interest rates of government securities having similar maturity to the portfolio of development credits, provides an estimate for the grant element. Under the HIPC Debt Initiative, development credits identified for sale to the HIPC Debt Initiative Trust Fund are written down to their estimated net present value using currency specific Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs)
published monthly by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Using the six months average CIRR as a discount rate provides an alternative estimate for the grant element.
Since IDA’s development credits are denominated either in U.S. dollars or SDRs, currency specific rates have been used to discount the corresponding future cash flows for each currency component of the development credits before being aggregated to provide the composite results.
The grant element calculations consider interest rates, maturity structures and grace periods for the credits. They do not consider credit risk, portfolio seasoning, multilateral and sovereign credit preferences and other risks or indicators that would be relevant in calculating fair value. Estimating the impact of these factors is not practicable.
However, under either alternative, the estimated fair values of development credits outstanding are substantially lower than the $102,457 million reflected
a.
b.
Discounting the future cash flows from IDA’s development credits using the standard 10 percent discount rate of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD, provides another alternative for the grant element. The estimated grant element based on this standard DAC rate for IDA’s development credits is 63% as of June 30, 2007 (63%—June 30, 2006).
NOTE G—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Administrative expenses represent IDA’s share of such expenses jointly incurred by IBRD and IDA.
The allocation of expenses is based upon an agreed cost sharing formula that reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
At June 30, 2007, a payable for administrative services to IBRD of $360 million ($364 million - June 30, 2006), and a receivable from IBRD for pension and other post retirement benefits of $977 million ($903 million - June 30, 2006) have been included in Other resources, net, on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Development Resources.
NOTE H—TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTRATION
IDA, alone or jointly with one or more of its affiliated organizations, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities,
funds restricted for specific uses in accordance with administration agreements with donors. Specified uses include, for example co-financing of IDA lending projects, debt reduction operations for IDA members, technical assistance for borrowers including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs, and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IDA and/or IBRD, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IDA and/or IBRD funds, nor are they included in the development resources of IDA.
Trust fund execution may be carried out in one of two ways: Recipient-executed or IDA-executed.
Recipient-executed trust funds involve activities carried out by a recipient third-party “executing agency”. IDA enters into agreements with and disburses funds to such recipients, who then exercise spending authority to meet the objectives and comply with terms stipulated in the agreements.
IDA-executed trust funds involve execution of activities by IDA as described in relevant administration agreements with donors which define the terms and conditions for use of the funds. Spending authority is exercised by IDA, under the terms of the administration agreements. The executing agency services provided by IDA vary and include for example, activity preparation, analytical and advisory activities and project-related activities, including procurement of goods and services.
In some trust funds, execution is split between Recipient-executed and IDA-executed portions. Decisions on assignment of funding resources between the two types of execution may be made on an ongoing basis; therefore the execution of a portion of these available resources may not yet be assigned.
IDA also enters into agreements for Limited Fiduciary arrangements under which IDA provides specific administrative or financial services with a limited fiduciary or operational role. These arrangements include, for example, administration of debt service trust funds, fiscal agency services and other more specialized limited funds management roles. Funds are held and disbursed in accordance with instructions from donors or, in some cases, external governance structure or body operating on behalf of donors.
The cash and investment assets held in trust by IDA as administrator and trustee at June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 are summarized below:
In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IDA, as executing agency, disbursed $159 million of trust fund program funds ($129 million—June 30, 2006).
IDA receives fees for administering trust funds. These are treated as a reduction of the administrative expenses shared with IBRD. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, IDA recognized $20 million ($21 million— June 30, 2006, $21 million—June 30, 2005) in fees for administering trust funds.
NOTE I—DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
A summary of changes to the amounts payable for development grants is presented below:
Effective July 1, 2005, development grants are charged to income upon approval by IDA’s Executive Directors. In previous periods, development grants were charged to income upon signing of the grant agreement by the recipient country. Had this new policy been in place during the prior periods presented in these financial statements, the opening Accumulated Deficit balance of $6,558 million as of July 1, 2005 would have been higher by $123 million to $6,681 million. Further, Development Grant expense amount for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 would have been lower by $123 million.
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and June 30,
2006,	the commitment charge rate on the undisbursed balances of IDA grants was zero percent. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 the rate will continue to be zero percent.
NOTE J—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting sources of development resources that are excluded from net income. For IDA, comprehensive income is comprised of income or loss after HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI, currency translation adjustments on development credits, payable for development grants and accumulated provision for MDRI. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The total accumulated other comprehensive income represents the cumulative translation adjustment on development credits and payable for development grants. The following table presents the changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income balances for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005: