MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD BANK GROUP AND CHAIRMAN OF THE Board OF EXECuTIVE Directors
This has been a year of testing for the World Bank Group and our ability to respond to the needs of our clients. Financial crisis has spiraled into an economic crisis and an unemployment crisis, and events could next become a social and human crisis with political implications. In this fast-moving and uncertain environment, the 2009 Annual Report reflects how the World Bank is leaning forward to serve our clients with flexibility, speed, innovation, and attention to results.
Our focus has been on mobilizing resources to support the projects and people who need them quickly. The World Bank is able to triple its support to IBRD borrowers to up to $100 billion through fiscal 2011, and we have been moving quickly to put these resources to work. For the poorest countries, we have established the Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility to accelerate approval processes for $2 billion of IDA grants and no-interest loans, and we have $42 billion of IDA resources available through fiscal 2011.
We have also established the Vulnerability Financing Facility (VFF) to streamline crisis support to the poor and vulnerable. The facility builds on the achievements of the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP), which provided immediate relief to countries hit hard by last year's high food prices. The VFF will address agriculture under the existing GFRP, which we expanded this year from $1.2 billion to $2 billon to further help countries respond to ongoing food price volatility. It will address social interventions—employment, safety nets, and protection of basic social services including nutrition—under the new Rapid Social Response Program.
We are building on lessons learned from the financial crises that hit Latin America in the 1980s and East Asia in the 1990s.
To ensure that governments can protect targeted social expenditures and finance effective safety nets, the World Bank Group is tripling support for safety net programs such as school feeding, nutrition, conditional cash transfer projects, and cash for work. Women and girls are a particular focus of these efforts, because we know they are the hardest hit during crisis times.
To focus attention on investment in infrastructure that can create jobs as well as build a foundation for long-term economic growth, the Bank is increasing lending in infrastructure to $15 billion per year over the next three years. We have established the Infrastructure Recovery and Assets Platform, a three-year effort to help partner countries respond to the global crisis through increased investment in infrastructure and support for public-private partnerships in infrastructure. To increase our efforts to support agriculture, the Bank is boosting funding for agriculture to $12 billion over the next two years to increase productivity and production.
To fill important gaps and attract donor support, we have launched the Capitalization Fund to help strengthen banks in smaller emerging markets, and a microfinance facility that will support lending to as many as 60 million poor borrowers in many of the world's poorest countries. We are supporting trade financing to enable the continued flow of trade credit into the market through the IFC's Global Trade Liquidity Program, which we expect to support up to $50 billion in trade over the next three years.
In all these efforts, we are building out our network—partnering with UN agencies, regional banks, foundations, private businesses, and civil society organizations. For example, last year the World Bank launched the creation of the Climate Investment Funds in support of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. These funds, designed through a consultative process involving a broad range of development partners, aim to strengthen our partnerships with both developing and developed countries to address the urgent challenges of climate change.
During fiscal 2009, the Bank Group committed $58.8 billion in loans, grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and to private businesses in member countries—an increase of $20.6 billion (54 percent) from fiscal 2008.
The contributions, creativity, and commitment of the people of the World Bank Group are critical to our scale-up effort. I know that our clients—from all parts of the world—appreciate the hard work of our staff, and continue to look to the Bank Group for actions and ideas. So we must maintain the public trust that we have been given by listening to our clients, delivering on our commitments, monitoring results, anticipating risks, and putting the governance and anticorruption agenda at the heart of all of our activities.
In closing, I want to thank the staff of the World Bank Group both in Washington and around the world. They have stepped up to the new challenges we face, and they are transforming us into a more dynamic, flexible, and innovative institution. I am also grateful to our Board of Executive Directors, the Governors, and our many contributors and partners for their ongoing help and counsel.
THE Board OF EXECuTIVE DIRECTORS
In response to the global financial and economic crisis, the Board of Executive Directors received periodic briefings, discussed the "World Bank Group Operational Response to the Crisis," and provided guidance on initiatives including the Vulnerability Financing Facility (VFF), designed to channel rapid support to protect the poor and the vulnerable. The Executive Directors focused on the two components of the VFF: the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) and the Rapid Social Response Program. They also approved the continued use of expedited procedures for the processing of country GFRP operations.
In fiscal 2009, the Board reviewed and recommended for the Board of Governors' approval a package of reforms to enhance the voice and participation of developing and transition countries in the governance of the World Bank Group. Proposed reforms included creating a Board chair for an additional Executive Director for Africa and an increase in the basic votes of all members.
The Executive Directors continue to closely monitor implementation of the Bank's poverty reduction mandate. They review country-owned poverty reduction strategies, also known as Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs). In February 2009, the Joint Staff Advisory Notes requirements for PRS documents were simplified and streamlined to improve the efficiency of Bank-Fund input into country poverty reduction strategies and to reduce client and institutional transactions costs. In fiscal 2009, the Board considered nine country PRSPs and nine country PRSP Progress Reports, emphasizing realism and monitoring and evaluation capacity to achieve results and to measure progress in alleviating poverty. The Directors also reviewed IDA's internal controls in a report jointly carried out by Management, the Internal Audit Department, and the Independent Evaluation Group.
With respect to debt relief, the Board called for continued attention to the sustainability and full delivery of debt relief initiatives such as the
enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) in fiscal 2009. It considered three country HIPC Completion Point proposals. The completion point is the point at which all creditors provide, unconditionally, the remainder of their share of debt relief agreed on at an earlier decision point in the HIPC process. The completion point is tied to implementation of key reforms and policies outlined in a country's PRSP. The Board also considered the progress report on HIPC and MDRI, and an update on the World Bank-International Monetary Fund work program on strengthening debt management practices in low-income countries.
The Board evaluated a variety of important documents for the Development Committee during fiscal 2009. These included the sixth annual Global Monitoring Report on progress toward the Millennium Development Goals and "Development and Climate Change: A Strategic Framework for the World Bank Group." In addition, Directors reviewed progress reports on the Bank Group's action plans for aid effectiveness; countries dealing with shocks as a result of the global food, fuel, and economic crises; fragile and postconflict states; completing the Doha Development Round; and delivering increased aid for trade. They also held a review of internal Board governance to ensure its effectiveness.
With regard to the Bank Group's work at the country level, during fiscal 2009, the Board reviewed 22 Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and 10 CAS Progress Reports as well as 7 Interim Strategy Notes, and approved $32.9 billion in IBRD lending and $14 billion in IDA commitments. In their deliberations, Directors urged greater coordination among IBRD/IDA, IFC, and MIGA; they also stressed the need for enhanced coordination and harmonization between the Bank Group and other development partners, including the so-called nontraditional donors, through division of labor and complementarity, preparation of joint matrices for budget support, shared mitigation strategies, and joint
missions. In this connection, Directors considered the World Bank Action Plan on Aid Effectiveness, and welcomed the Agenda for Action, which culminated at the Accra High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness.
The Executive Directors approved a total administrative budget, net of reimbursements, of $2,245.7 million for fiscal 2010. The total administrative budget for fiscal 2009 was $2,189.1 million, net of reimbursements, including $201.1 million for the Development Grant Facility, the Institutional Grant Programs and State and Peace-Building Fund. The net administrative budget of $1,717.3 million represented a 4.9 percent nominal increase over the fiscal 2008 budget.
Executive Directors periodically visit member countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide variety of people, including project managers, beneficiaries, and government officials, as well as nongovernmental organizations, the business community, other development partners, financial institutions, and resident Bank staff. During fiscal 2009, Directors visited Benin, Colombia, Honduras, Jamaica, Paraguay, and Togo. They also visited Tunisia to meet with the Executive Board of the African Development Bank.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the Bank's general operations; they perform their duties under powers delegated by the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, five of the 24 Executive Directors are appointed by single-member countries having the largest number of shares; the rest are elected by the other member countries, which form constituencies in an election process conducted every two years. The resident Board of Executive Directors represents the evolving perspectives of member countries on the role of the Bank Group.
The Board fulfills an important role in shaping policies that guide the general operations of the Bank and its strategic direction, as well as deciding on IBRD loan and guarantee proposals and on IDA credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made by the President. It is also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors at the Annual Meetings audited accounts, an administrative budget, and the Annual Report on the operations and policies of the Bank, as well as any other matters that, in their judgment, require submission to the Board of Governors. The Independent Evaluation Group, which reports directly to the Board, provides independent advice to the Board on the relevance, sustainability, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations.
(See http://www.worldbank.org/boards and http://www. worldbank.org/ieg.) The Inspection Panel, which also reports directly to the Board, addresses the concerns of people affected by Bank projects and ensures that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures during the design, preparation, and implementation phases of projects.
The Executive Directors have established five standing committees— Audit, Budget, Committee on Development Effectiveness, Governance and Administrative Matters, and Personnel—which assist the Board in overseeing and making decisions about the Bank Group's policies and procedures, financial condition, risk-management and assessment processes, adequacy of governance and controls, and effectiveness of development and poverty reduction activities. In addition, an Ethics Committee provides guidance on matters covered by the Code of Conduct for Board Officials.
INSPECTION PANEL
The main purpose of the Inspection Panel is to address the concerns of people affected by Bank-financed projects and to ensure that the Bank adheres to its operational policies and procedures during the design, preparation, or implementation of the projects. The Panel submits to the Board for approval on a "no objection" basis its recommendations to investigate requests for inspection. If the investigation is approved, the Panel will prepare an investigation report. Both this report and Management's response are discussed by the Executive Directors, who also approve Management's action plan included in the Management's response.
In fiscal 2009, the Board discussed the following projects that the Panel investigated: the West African Gas Pipeline Project, the Uganda Private Power Generation (Bujagali) Project, the Albania Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Clean-up Project, and the Ghana Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project. The Panel is currently completing its investigations related to the Albania Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project. Management is preparing its response to the Panel's investigation of the Argentina Santa Fe Road Infrastructure Project. The Panel also received six requests for inspection involving Bank-financed projects in the Democratic Republic of Congo, India, Panama, and the Republic of Yemen. (See http://www.inspectionpanel.org.)
A WORLD IN CRISIS
The world is dealing with its greatest financial and economic challenge since World War II. The financial turmoil that began in 2007 erupted into a full-blown economic crisis in September 2008, spawned rising unemployment, and now threatens to become a major humanitarian problem. Virtually no country has escaped the impact of the widening crisis, the effects of which are likely to be felt through 2011.
The global economy, which grew by 1.9 percent in 2008, is expected to decline by 2.9 percent this year, far deeper than the 1.7 percent decrease the World Bank projected in April 2009. This is the first time that global output has shrunk in more than 60 years (see box 1.1). Growth in developing countries is forecast to slow by more than
4	percentage points, to just 1.2 percent, in 2009. And in Europe and Central Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, the gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to contract. Global trade in goods and services is projected to fall close to 10 percent this year, the largest drop in 80 years, as countries have sharply curtailed their consumption of and expenditure on durable and investment goods—which are both heavily traded imported categories of goods.
Global industrial production fell an unprecedented 13 percent in the 12 months ending April 2009, with the sharpest declines concentrated in countries specializing in the production of durable and investment products and those with large current account deficits. The decline has led to significant layoffs, which have disproportionately
The Bank's Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) released a report in fiscal 2009 on the lessons of Bank interventions in past episodes of financial crisis. Key findings include:
•	Volume with quality. The composition and effectiveness of public expenditures is critical to the success of an intervention.
• Poverty and social safety nets. Poverty issues received insufficient attention in past financial crises. It is crucial to factor in the implications for social safety nets from the beginning of the crisis rather than later.
•	Environment and climate change. Interventions need to take into account the effects of the crisis on the environment and climate change. The Bank Group can build on recent momentum in mobilizing funds to address climate change and foster greener development activities.
•	Leveraging resources. The adequacy of resources, including resources leveraged with partners, is key. Collaboration, both
within the Bank Group and between the Bank Group and its partners, has proven crucial, not only to increasing synergies but also to avoiding tensions, such as those that have occasionally arisen between the Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
•	Fiduciary concerns. Financial and risk management, as well as environmental and social safeguards, will continue to be vital to ensure that scarce resources reach intended beneficiaries and negative consequences are avoided.
•	Monitoring and evaluation. While there is a premium on speed, there is a heightened need for a results-based framework that links objectives, program costs, and benefits. The focus on results is particularly important when resources are scarce.
•	Preparedness and early warning. More effective mechanisms are needed for early warning of crises. The Bank Group needs to work with the IMF and other international financial institutions on the design and implementation of such mechanisms.
affected immigrant workers, most of them from developing countries. The International Labour Organization predicts that a further 20 million people will fall into joblessness by the end of the crisis. Given the depth of the slowdown and the weak recovery that is expected, it will likely be several years before unemployment rates return to precrisis levels.
It is estimated that every 1 percent decline in developing countries' growth rates traps an additional 20 million people in poverty. By this measure, the current crisis is projected to force another 53 million to scrape by on less than $1.25 a day. Tight borrowing conditions and uncertainty about the future abruptly curtailed the flow of capital that developing countries had been receiving for several years. This has
PROGRESS TOWARD THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The global financial crisis is imperiling achievement of the MDGs, most of which now appear unattainable. Targets that would have been difficult to reach even before the crisis are now considered implausible, and a real risk exists that the financial and economic crisis that began in the United States may develop into a humanitarian, political, and security catastrophe in the world's most vulnerable regions.
1.	Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger
The goal of halving poverty by 2015 from its 1990 level is still reachable, but risks abound. The number of people living in extreme poverty could rise in more than half of all developing countries in 2009, including two-thirds of all low-income countries and three-quarters of all countries in Africa. As a result of the worldwide recession, an additional 55 million to 90 million people are projected to be trapped in extreme poverty in 2009, and the number of people who are chronically hungry has climbed to more than 1 billion, reversing gains in fighting malnutrition.
2.	Achieve Universal Primary Education
Progress toward the primary education goal varies across regions. Many countries in East Asia and Pacific and Latin America and the Caribbean are on track. In contrast, progress has been slow in Europe and Central Asia and the Middle East and North Africa, and neither Africa nor South Asia is on track to achieve this MDG.
3.	Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women
Female participation in the labor force has increased, but participation rates, occupational levels, and wages reveal significant gender gaps. East Asia and Pacific and Europe and Central Asia are close to reaching the gender parity target for all education levels. Although Latin America and the Caribbean is on track to achieve the target at the primary level, gender bias against boys is apparent at the secondary and tertiary levels. South Asia and Africa lag behind at all levels for this target, particularly at the tertiary level.
4.	Reduce Child Mortality
The under-five mortality rate has fallen in all regions since 1990, and some regions are close to being on track to reduce the rate by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015. In more than three-quarters of countries for which data are available, however, the under-five mortality rate has not declined rapidly enough to meet the target by 2015.
5.	Improve Maternal Health
Among all the MDGs, the least progress has been made in improving maternal health. Every year, more than half a million women die from complications during pregnancy or childbirth or during the six weeks after delivery. Progress in Africa— the region with the highest maternal mortality rate—has been negligible.
6.	Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Other Diseases
About 33 million people were living with HIV in 2007, and about 2 million, the majority in Africa, died from the disease. Most countries in the world are off track for reaching the target for HIV/AIDS, largely because of insufficient funding and inadequate supplies of antiretroviral drugs. Nevertheless, antiretroviral use has become more common and affordable, with free medication available in many parts of the world through government partnerships and subsidies from international and nongovernmental organizations. Pilot programs for bed net distribution to combat malaria infections have recorded significant success, although the disease still causes more than 1 million deaths a year among children under five, predominantly in Africa.
7.	Ensure Environmental Sustainability
About half of all developing countries for which data are available have achieved or are on track to achieve the improved water target. In contrast, less than a quarter have achieved or are on track to achieve the improved sanitation target. Additional investment of $100 billion to $200 billion will be needed to combat climate change in developing countries over 2010-20, and the figure is projected to rise to $400 billion a year on average after 2020.
8.	Develop a Global Partnership for Development
Official development assistance from members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's Development Assistance Committee rose about 10 percent in real terms in 2008, following declines in 2006 and 2007. Despite the increase, aid was still about $29 billion short of the Gleneagles target of $130 billion a year by 2010. The Accra Conference on Aid Effectiveness reviewed the Paris Declaration commitments and moved beyond harmonization to focus on country ownership and creating inclusive partnerships (see box 1.4), while the Arab World Initiative is promoting development and opportunity through partnerships focused on infrastructure, gender, and other areas (see box 1.5). (See http://www.developmentgoals.org.)
caused serious economic problems in countries with large current account deficits, notably a number of countries in Europe and Central Asia. As a result of an increase in investors' reticence to expose themselves to risk, developing countries are estimated to face a financing gap of between $352 billion and $635 billion in 2009. In the absence of external support, many countries may be forced to slash spending on health, education, agriculture, and social programs. Fragile and conflict-affected countries are in a weaker position to cope with the effects of the crisis and to mediate its social impacts than other developing countries.
The projected decline in private capital flows and official aid to developing countries is expected to be much larger than the drop in remittances, reflecting the relative stability of the stock of migrants worldwide. As a result, remittances will be an even more important source of foreign currency than they were before the crisis. But they too are expected to fall by as much as 7-10 percent in 2009—a sizable decrease given the double-digit growth rates of the past few years (see box 1.2).
The current financial and economic crisis comes on top of the skyrocketing of food and fuel prices in 2008, which dragged an estimated 130-155 million people in developing countries into poverty. Higher food prices persist in many countries, despite the increase in the global supply of cereal and decreases in international food prices.
By June 2009, oil prices had dropped by more than 50 percent from their mid-2008 peak, while nonoil commodity prices had fallen by about 30 percent. Though these declines provided some relief to the poor in developing countries, oil prices at around $70 per barrel at the end of June 2009 remain substantially higher than their levels before the spike in 2008. In the short term, oil-exporting countries should be able to use windfall profits saved from 2008 to mitigate the effects of the global downturn on their economies.
There are increasing signs that the global economy has stabilized and that a recovery is beginning. However, the recovery is expected to be slow, and the human and economic impact of the crisis will continue
to affect people in developing countries for years to come, threatening decades of development progress. Preliminary estimates for 2009-15, for example, suggest that the annual number of infant deaths in developing countries may be 200,000-400,000 higher than in the absence of the economic crisis.
The 2009 Annual Report explores the actions taken and ideas generated by the Bank during fiscal 2009 to create sustainable solutions. The report focuses on the outlook for the global economic crisis and the Bank's initiatives to help clients meet the challenge; the ripple effects of the food and fuel crises and what the Bank is doing to address them; and the health, education, infrastructure, gender, and climate change issues that continue to challenge low- and middle-income countries.
Taking Action to Overcome the Crisis and Ongoing Development Challenges
The Bank is moving rapidly to help countries deal with the crisis while simultaneously tending to its existing projects and programs. The three main focal areas are protecting the most vulnerable people from the immediate and long-term fallout of the crisis, maintaining long-term infrastructure investment programs, and sustaining the potential for private sector-led economic growth and employment creation, particularly through small- and medium-size enterprises and microfinance. Ongoing development challenges, such as HIV/AIDS and climate change, are also important. Responses to short- and longer-term crises work hand in hand, as more immediate mitigation can reveal strategies and launch instruments that enhance efforts toward solving problems that will stretch further into the future.
Drawing on its financial strength and its role as the global leader in development analysis and data, the Bank Group launched a range of new programs and financial products in fiscal 2009. It was one of the few development institutions to have increased aid to the poorest countries over this period, providing an additional $2.8 billion in financing in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008.
To assure stakeholders that IDA complies with Bank articles and policies, the Board requested that IEG perform a full review of the control system in place, in coordination with a self-assessment by IDA management and a review by the Bank's Internal Audit Department. IEG found, with some important qualifications,
that IDA's internal controls framework operates to a high standard. Identified weaknesses included areas of fiduciary controls, and lack of specific focus of transaction-level controls against fraud and corruption. This assessment was the first of its kind done by any international development finance institution.
Following the record 15th Replenishment of IDA, commitments are expected to reach nearly $42 billion for IDA in fiscal 2009-11. These resources are being allocated to long-term country development programs. Lending by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) nearly tripled, from $13.5 billion to $32.9 billion, during fiscal 2009, much of it delivered through fast-disbursing development policy loans. IBRD lending volumes are expected to remain strong over fiscal 2009-11.
Though additional lending is critical, an infusion of money alone will not solve the problems of developing countries or chart a path for their future. For this reason, the Bank is both developing financial solutions based on what has worked in the past (see box 1.1) and partnering with other international development and financial institutions to help people worldwide, recognizing that the impact of the financial crisis on low- and middle-income countries varies dramatically.
To help the poorest and most vulnerable countries cope with the deterioration of conditions brought on by the financial crisis, in December 2008 the Bank established the Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility to accelerate approval processes for $2 billion of IDA grants and long-term, interest-free loans. Armenia, the Central African Republic, and the Democratic Republic of Congo were the first countries to benefit from the facility.
In fiscal 2009, the Bank established the Vulnerability Financing Facility, a realignment of resources comprising the $1.2 billion Global Food Crisis Response Program and the new Rapid Social Response Program. The facility includes both existing Bank resources and some new pledges from donors. By the end of fiscal 2009, the Global Food Crisis Response Program had disbursed $780.2 million in 31 countries. The Rapid Social Response Program seeks to help all borrower countries with their immediate social needs and to lay the groundwork for mitigating future crises. A multidonor, country-led trust fund, supported by Japan and the United Kingdom, will
Remittance flows represent the largest source of foreign exchange in many countries, accounting for more than a third of national income in some small countries. For poor people in developing countries, they provide a lifeline. In 2009, developing countries will see a decline of about 7 percent in remittances as a result of the economic crisis. The stock of international migrants, however, is not expected to decline, and remittance flows will remain resilient compared with other sources of external financing for developing countries.
The Bank's migration and development work program includes efforts to improve data, understand the impacts of migration and remittances on poverty and economic growth, and design policy recommendations for both sending and receiving countries. Research and sector work focuses on ways to facilitate remittances; reduce remittance fees; minimize the skill losses associated with migration of skilled workers; understand the links among trade, investment and migration, social protection, and portability of pension benefits; and harness diasporas for development.
Fiscal 2009 saw the publication of several important regional and global reports. One of them, Shaping the Future: A Long-Term Perspective of People and Job Mobility for the Middle East and North Africa, develops a policy framework for helping sending and receiving countries prepare for the rapid acceleration of job and labor mobility that may result from the projected demographic and labor force imbalances in the region. People Move, a widely read blog on migration, remittances, and development, was launched in June 2008. (See http://blogs.worldbank.org/peoplemove.)
During the World Bank-IMF Annual Meetings in October 2008, the Bank organized a workshop attended by central bank governors to discuss findings from the Bank's global survey of central banks on remittances. In March 2009, the Bank organized a meeting on its Africa Migration Project at the African Development Bank in Tunis.
In July 2008, the G-8 nations called for the establishment of a Global Remittances Working Group and invited the Bank to coordinate and facilitate its work. The group set a target of reducing remittance fees by 5 percentage points in five years, which could raise more than $15 billion in additional annual resource flows to developing countries.
provide additional donor resources with which to complement IDA support for low-income and fragile states most affected by the crisis.
In addition to financing, the Bank provided advisory services in fiscal 2009 to partner with governments in developing and implementing sound debt management frameworks. It also expanded its menu of customized financial products and services to assist countries in risk management and protection of scarce public resources.
In April 2009, the Bank launched the Infrastructure Recovery and Assets (INFRA) platform in coordination with other multilateral development banks and donor governments. It was created to ensure that governments continue to finance infrastructure development and provide basic infrastructure services during the global downturn. To help client countries provide the foundation for recovery from the global economic crisis, the Bank is joining with donor partners to ensure that country diagnostic analyses and project preparation efforts continue. The Bank plans to increase its own infrastructure investments to at least $45 billion over three years, a $15 billion increase over the preceding three years. The funds, along with those from INFRA partners, will help jumpstart projects that have stalled in recent months, including, for example, the installation of power grids in Cameroon and new port facilities in Indonesia and Vietnam.
The Bank faces a twofold challenge: reducing poverty and enabling people to stay out of poverty, and shepherding its existing programs and implementing new, noncrisis instruments while helping client countries withstand the economic crisis.
FINANCING STRATEGIES
Since the onset of the financial crisis, there has been a surge in the number of countries seeking IBRD's expertise and risk-management services to reduce borrowing costs and manage volatility in exchange rates and interest rates. Colombia, Indonesia, and Mexico are among countries that partnered with IBRD as an intermediary in fiscal 2009 to pursue risk-management strategies.
The Bank's contingent financing product, the IBRD Development Policy Loan (DPL) with a deferred drawdown option (DDO), is a ready source of liquidity for member countries facing immediate financing needs. The product provided Colombia with much-needed liquidity in fiscal 2009 after the global financial turmoil reduced the country's access to capital markets. Another country that also benefited from the DPL DDO was Indonesia. The Bank and other donors launched a $5.5 billion contingent financing facility to help Indonesia respond to the financial crisis. The largest component of the facility was a $2 billion DPL DDO that helped the country leverage funding from other sources, sending a strong positive signal to international and domestic markets about its available liquidity.
In April 2009, the Bank approved a pilot innovative financing mechanism—the Advance Market Commitment—to address a failure in the market for development of pneumococcal vaccines. Through the mechanism, the IBRD will provide the financial platform for a pilot vaccine program designed to give children in the world's poorest countries timely access to safe, effective vaccines, at affordable prices,
A major effort is underway to reform the Bank's investment lending model so that it responds better to borrowers' needs and the changing global environment. Investment lending reform aims to sharpen the focus on results and improve the management of risk. It will address issues related to both preparation and implementation support, as well as the policy framework and related institutional and system issues to support the reform.
Reform is organized around five objectives:
•	improving risk management by developing a risk-based model to assess proposed operations and processing requirements;
•	consolidating and rationalizing the menu of investment lending options to include instruments for rapid response and emergency operations, projects differentiated by risk, and instruments to better support results-based financing;
•	enhancing supervision and implementation support;
•	revising the policy framework guiding investment lending; and
•	cultivating an enabling environment for reform by aligning incentives, addressing accountability issues, and providing training and support to teams, including in the use of information technology. (See http://www.worldbank.org/ investmentlendingreform.)
by accelerating the creation of a viable market for pneumococcal vaccines.
Protecting Scarce Public Resources
As the financial crisis led to substantial macroeconomic adjustments around the world, many countries were required to revise their debt management strategies. Most significantly, the crisis highlighted the urgent need to develop or put in place a robust public debt management framework that helps promote long-term debt sustainability in a changing market environment.
In response to these challenges, the Bank helped client governments develop and implement sound debt management practices, including strategy formulation and execution, risk management, governance, access to international capital markets, and capacity building. The Debt Management Facility, a multidonor trust fund, was established to help low-income and IDA-only countries strengthen their debt management capacity. And in partnership with other donors, the Bank used its existing Debt Reduction Facility to help Liberia reduce its foreign commercial debt through a buy-back operation of $1.2 billion at a discount of nearly 97 percent of face value, the deepest discount ever negotiated by a developing country.
SPURRING TRADE AND DEVELoPING THE FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECToRS
Trade
The Bank launched the Trade Facilitation Facility, a rapid-response fund aimed at helping developing countries reduce trade costs and enhance their ability to move goods and services across borders rapidly, cheaply, and predictably. The facility is designed to finance activities that will make immediate and direct improvements in trade facilitation systems by modernizing infrastructure, institutions, policies, and regulations. Reducing trade costs represents a significant opportunity for countries to realize their economic development and poverty-reduction goals during this time of economic crisis.
Surveys of exporters, importers, and local banks involved with trade finance in 14 developing countries reveal that the cost of trade finance has increased markedly and the supply of export finance has contracted. The World Bank has put in place operational programs with a trade finance component in the amount of $4 billion through the IFC Global Trade Finance Program (GTFP) and the Global Trade Liquidity Program (GTLP). Together with its official and private partners, the GTLP is expected to contribute up to $50 billion in short-term trade finance over a three-year period. (See http://www.worldbank.org/trade.)
The Accra Agenda for Action (AAA), adopted in September 2008 during the Third High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Ghana, builds on progress achieved to date in implementing the Paris Declaration. Reflecting the voice of developing countries, it goes beyond harmonization to focus on strengthening country ownership and creating inclusive partnerships, underscoring mutual accountability for results and identifying concrete actions for all development partners.
Both developing countries and donors have made progress on the aid effectiveness commitments made in the Paris Declaration and the AAA. The 2008 monitoring survey indicates that countries have made some improvements in formulating national development strategies, with sound results frameworks to monitor them, and that donor support is increasingly aligned with those strategies. However, in many areas, developing
countries and donors need to accelerate progress to meet the AAA commitments.
Building on the AAA, the Bank developed an Action Plan on Aid Effectiveness in March 2009. Priorities include increasing country ownership and use of country systems; effectively engaging with all development partners, especially newer donors and in fragile state contexts; and improving management for development results and aid predictability.
As part of its international engagement on aid effectiveness, the Bank is currently co-Vice Chair of the Development Assistance Committee's Working Party on Aid Effectiveness and its Executive Committee. The Bank is also providing substantial technical input to the working party, which will play a central role in defining the agenda for the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness scheduled to take place in Korea in 2011.
Financial and Private Sector Development
The Bank's fiscal 2009 work on financial and private sector development focused on assisting governments in managing their responses to the financial crisis; maintaining financial stability; ensuring access to finance, especially by micro-, small-, and medium-size enterprises and the poor; and creating conditions for economic recovery and growth. It did so through three main mechanisms: crisis preparedness, financial sector reforms, and investment climate reforms.
Crisis Preparedness and Tracking The Bank supported national authorities in undertaking simulation exercises in fiscal 2009 to replicate the key characteristics and behaviors of a financial system in crisis. The process was designed to prepare authorities to better manage potential crises and increase the speed of their responses. In addition, CGAP (Consultative Group to Assist the Poor) offered a suite of analytical products that tracked what was happening to microfinance performance globally. And as part of a campaign for responsible finance, CGAP helped investors implement the Client Protection Principles. (See http://www.cgap.org.)
Financial Sector Reforms The Bank advised a number of governments on the design of regulatory reforms during fiscal 2009. The Financial Sector Assessment Programs (FSAPs), carried out with the IMF in low-and middle-income countries, will continue to play a critical role as a key diagnostic in understanding the vulnerabilities and developmental
Box 1.5
challenges of financial systems. The Bank has engaged in FSAPs and FSAP updates in more than 120 countries over the past 10 years, contributing to the analytical underpinnings of financial sector reforms and some of the recent crisis-related loans to governments.
In more than 50 countries, the Bank is helping to enhance the stability of and promote access to basic payment services. Jointly with IFC, the Bank is promoting credit bureau development in more than 50 countries, and has helped establish or improve 13 bureaus supporting approximately $19 billion in financing and working on secured transaction and collateral registry projects in nine countries. Such a project in China, completed in June 2009, supported more than $350 billion in receivables financing.
The Bank's Remittance Prices Worldwide Database (http:// remittanceprices.worldbank.org) contains detailed information on the cost of sending remittances in 134 bilateral corridors. These data are intended to increase transparency in the market for remittances, which combined with adequate consumer protection, helps foster a competitive and safe market for remittances, and is an important factor in the reduction of costs.
Investment Climate Reforms The Bank supports governments in developing countries in reforms to improve the environment for business, with the objective of promoting a robust and competitive private sector.
The Arab World Initiative (AWI) aims to promote development and opportunity in the Arab world by strengthening partnerships; scaling up successful regional initiatives; and piloting new, high-impact regional and country-specific initiatives.
Following extensive consultations with country authorities and other stakeholders, the AWI supported several new programs in fiscal 2009 and scaled up some existing ones. It developed an integrated index for education performance; provided technical assistance to launch the Regional Academy for Learning and Leadership in Education, based in Jordan; initiated assessments of energy integration in the Arab world; supported investments in ports, airports, and logistics in the Arab Republic of Egypt, Jordan, and Tunisia; and assessed cross-border facilitation and infrastructure in Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the West Bank and Gaza. The AWI
piloted an assessment of barriers to female employment in Jordan; scaled up support to countries severely hit by soaring food prices; and increased support to community projects in fragile and conflict-affected countries, including Iraq, Lebanon, Mauritania, Sudan, and the West Bank and Gaza. The AWI also provided support to the Arab Water Academy as a platform of knowledge exchange and enhancement of Arab leadership in sustainable resource management.
Under the AWI, IFC and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) scaled up activities in housing finance, student loans, and investment guarantees, while the World Bank Institute launched a corporate social responsibility program, the Bank's Development Economics Vice Presidency launched a regional research capacity development program, and Treasury scaled up reserves-management capacity building.
One focus of this work is improving the efficiency of business regulation, leading to more opportunities for entrepreneurship and formal sector employment. The annual Bank-IFC publication Doing Business (http:// www.doingbusiness.org) has tracked close to 1,000 such reforms in 158 countries over the past five years. Business startup reforms in Mexico, for example, boosted formal sector employment by close to 3 percent. A new initiative launched this year, the online Gender Law Library (www. doingbusiness.org/gender), tracks laws and regulations that affect the economic status of women in 181 economies. The database facilitates comparative analysis of legislation, contributing to reforms that can enhance women's full economic participation.
The multidonor Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), focused on supporting measurable reforms to improve the investment climate in about 40 countries in fiscal 2009, expanding activities in strategic priority areas such as Africa, IDA countries, and conflict-affected states. In response to the global financial crisis, it scaled up its work in business reform, secured lending and collateral frameworks, business tax simplification, and trade logistics. FIAS also began developing a new insolvency product to assist countries in improving their legal and institutional frameworks for insolvency and corporate restructuring. (See http://www.fias.net.)
transforming and deploying
THE WoRLD BANK'S KNoWLEDGE BASE
Knowledge is the key to development effectiveness and the driver for a successful development institution. The Bank is able to draw on a global network of platforms in 120 countries, close and long-standing relationships with partners, a deep understanding of global and national policy issues, an unparalleled pool of development data and expertise, a strong balance sheet, and a highly motivated and entrepreneurial workforce.
The global financial crisis and the associated questioning of conventional wisdom will create more demand for the Bank's knowledge services over the coming years, underscoring the critical need for the Bank to strengthen its knowledge base.
The recently created Knowledge Strategy Group is developing a shared vision that will guide a broad set of actions over the coming years. Revitalizing the knowledge agenda will require deep-seated
financial solutions for natural catastrophes
The Bank moved a step forward in its efforts to provide financial solutions to help countries plan efficient responses to catastrophic weather-related events in fiscal 2009. Malawi, a landlocked African country heavily exposed to the risk of drought, became the first country to hedge its exposure to weather-related risk with IBRD's
changes in the way the Bank does business. It will require commitment to an ongoing and comprehensive renewal program to create an organization that:
•	values global excellence in development effectiveness as the core goal and aligns its incentives and culture along this objective,
•	is driven by client focus,
•	can rapidly respond across the globe with a highly mobile technical and managerial staff deeply connected to diverse internal and external networks of expertise,
•	focuses on results, and
•	values open debates on development policies and issues. Deploying Global Expertise
In fiscal 2009, the Bank Group created 10 Global Expert Teams (GETs) in strategic priority areas: Climate Change Adaptation; Disaster Risk Management; Financial Crisis; Fragile and Conflict Situations; Growth; Health Systems; Public-Private Partnerships; Public Sector Performance; Social Safety Nets; and Science, Technology, and Innovation. The core objectives of these teams are to provide highest quality, rapid-response service to clients; to mobilize and deploy the best global expertise (internal and external); and to improve the capture, sharing, and use of knowledge within their areas. The GET provides a unique opportunity to convene subject matter expertise from across the Bank, for which there is no other existing mechanism.
Since their creation in February 2009, the GETs have delivered a large portfolio of activities. For example, the Disaster Risk Management GET conducted a reconnaissance mission to mobilize assistance for Namibia after it had been hit by the worst floods of the past 40 years. The Public Private Partnership GET provided infrastructure financing assessments to Indonesia, Mexico, and Thailand. The Health Systems GET organized and led a high-level health systems strengthening conference involving the Global Fund for AIDS, TB, and Malaria (GFATM), the Global Alliance for Vaccines Initiative (GAVI) and the World Health Organization (WHO).
Other activities have included the Science, Technology, and Innovation GET working closely with the governments of both Ghana and Rwanda to
develop science and technology programs in their country strategies. In Ghana, the Public Sector Performance GET conducted a diagnostic to assist the country team on public sector pay reform.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change will most severely affect the poorest people and the poorest countries, potentially reversing decades of development achievements and slowing progress toward several of the MDGs. The issue is particularly important because the financial crisis has jeopardized the momentum of the climate change agenda.
Conscious of the enormous importance of helping client countries incorporate climate action into their development plans, and building on more than a decade of experience on the issue, the Bank moved to integrate climate change work more fully into its projects and programs
in fiscal 2009. This followed the approval of the World Bank Group Strategic Framework on Climate Change and Development, endorsed by the Development Committee at the 2008 Annual Meetings.
Under the framework, the Bank will support climate actions in country-led development processes; mobilize additional concessional and innovative finance; facilitate the development of market-based financing mechanisms; leverage private sector resources; support accelerated development and deployment of new technologies; and step up policy research, knowledge, and capacity building initiatives.
In response to the need to mobilize additional concessional and innovative finance, the Bank's Board of Executive Directors approved the creation of the Climate Investment Funds (CIFs) in July 2008. Created in close cooperation with other multilateral development banks, the funds are designed as an interim measure, pending the establishment of a post-2012 international regime governing national greenhouse gas emissions.
The funds will scale up climate change assistance to developing countries and strengthen the climate change knowledge base in the development community. They will allow multilateral development banks and developing countries to undertake investments that help countries achieve their development goals through transition to a climate-resilient economy and a low-carbon development path. One of the most innovative features of the CIFs is their inclusion of equal numbers of potential recipient and donor countries on decision-making committees.
Recognizing the importance of the demonstration effects of investments in climate action, donor countries committed more than $6.1 billion to the CIFs. A large share of this funding was allocated to the Clean Technology Fund, which aims to promote scaled-up financing for the demonstration, deployment, and transfer of low-carbon technologies with a significant potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Clean Technology Fund finances innovative renewable energy and efficient technologies to reduce carbon intensity; greater efficiency and modal shifts in the transport sector; and energy efficiency in buildings, industry, agriculture, and other areas where significant greenhouse gas emission reductions can be obtained. In May 2009, Turkey became the first country to benefit directly from the fund, with financing to support a large-scale renewable energy and energy-efficiency program. Other countries have submitted detailed requests for funding.
The second fund, the Strategic Climate Fund, will provide financing to pilot new approaches or scale up activities aimed at a specific climate change challenge. A Pilot Program for Climate Resilience was established to support climate resilience in national development planning. And a Forest Investment Program was designed to help catalyze policies and
measures that reduce deforestation and forest degradation and promote the sustainable management of forests in developing countries.
Earlier in the year, the Bank launched a comprehensive analysis of the economics of adaptation to determine the level of financing that will be needed to put efficient adaptation policies into place. It also initiated studies of low-carbon growth strategies in six countries (Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, and South Africa) to share knowledge on how to integrate climate action into national development plans. (See http://www.worldbank.org/climatechange.)
As part of a series of planned evaluations on climate change, IEG recently focused on the Bank's experience in key win-win policies in the energy sector—policies that combine developmental gains with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. It recommended shifting energy subsidies toward targeted social safety nets and policies that promote end-user energy efficiency. Both are more relevant than ever in light of the 2008 spike in energy prices and the current economic and financial crisis.
improving infrastructure
Despite vast improvements in infrastructure over the past decade,
2.5 billion of the world's people still lack sanitation services, 1.6 billion live without electricity, 1 billion have no easy access to all-weather roads, and nearly 900 million have no choice but to use unsafe water. To help client countries fill these gaps, the Bank increased its investment in infrastructure by 50 percent in fiscal 2009 to $17.2 billion.
Additionally, the Bank updated its approach to infrastructure development with the Sustainable Infrastructure Action Plan. The plan provides a roadmap to guide scaled-up investments in modern, cost-effective infrastructure services that also support environmental sustainability and social inclusion. It emphasizes three main areas:
•	developing more focused approaches to complex issues that cut across several sectors of the economy, such as the role of infrastructure in climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts, the role of public-private partnerships in the provision of infrastructure services, and new ways to provide infrastructure support for rural-urban integration and development,
•	improving the monitoring of results and the evaluation of sustainable infrastructure interventions, and
•	placing sustainability at the core of infrastructure interventions by focusing on the "triple bottom line" (economic/financial, environmental, and social sustainability).
Lessons from previous financial crises point to the need to maintain or expand investments in infrastructure. The new INFRA Platform, developed as part of the Bank's Vulnerability Fund, will work in tandem with IFC's new Infrastructure Crisis Facility to provide developing countries with a set of technical and financial assistance proposals that enable them to maintain or expand infrastructure investments during global economic downturns. INFRA will support governments that want to use infrastructure investments to advance the "green agenda," with financing in areas such as renewable energy, mass transit systems, and water and sanitation.
These infrastructure investments, expected to reach $15 billion a year over fiscal 2009-11, will leverage and support private sector initiatives in the field, creating jobs during the downturn. The platform will also lay the foundation for robust and sustainable growth over the longer term. (See http://www.worldbank.org/infrastructure.)
supporting food and agriculture
High volatility in food prices combined with the impact of the financial crisis threatens to further increase food insecurity and exacerbate the hardships faced by the poorest people. According to the latest Food and Agriculture Organization estimates, more than 1 billion people worldwide are undernourished.
The Global Food Crisis Response Program, a $1.2 billion fast-track financing facility, was launched by the Bank in May 2008 to respond to the food crisis. In response to high demand, in April 2009 the Bank increased the ceiling on financing to $2 billion. Since the program was created, projects totaling nearly $1.2 billion have been approved in 33 countries and $780.2 million has been disbursed in 31 countries. The continuing World Bank response has been articulated in coordination with the United Nations' (UN) High-Level Task Force on food security.
Following the publication of World Development Report2008: Agriculture for Development, and in the wake of the food crisis, the World Bank Group projects an increase in support (from IDA, IBRD, and IFC) to agriculture and related sectors from a baseline average support in fiscal 2006-08 of $4.1 billion annually to between $6.2 billion and $8.3 billion annually over fiscal 2010-12. Bank support will be aligned around five focus areas: raising agricultural productivity, linking farmers to markets and strengthening value chains, reducing risk and vulnerability, facilitating agriculture entry and exit and rural nonfarm income, and enhancing environmental sustainability and services. In addition, the Bank will continue support for the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, which mobilizes cutting-edge science to reduce hunger and poverty, improve human nutrition and health, and protect the environment.
INVESTING IN PEoPLE
As a result of the global economic crisis, decades of human development achievements in low- and middle-income countries are at risk of unraveling. Accordingly, the Human Development Network (HDN)— which focuses on education, health, HIV/AIDS, and social protection and labor—mobilized record levels of lending and knowledge services to help Bank client countries weather the worst effects of the crisis. HDN's recommendations appeared in a policy report, "Averting a Human Crisis during the Global Downturn: Policy Options from the World Bank's Human Development Network," released in April 2009. (See http:// siteresources.worldbank.org/NEwS/Resources/ AvertingTheHumancrisis.pdf.)
Education
The Bank nearly doubled its spending to the education sector over the past year, from $1.9 billion in fiscal 2008 to $3.4 billion in fiscal 2009. The $9.4 billion education lending portfolio—over half of which is provided through IDA on concessionary terms—supports 152 operations in 89 countries.
East Asian countries, with a total of $941 million, account for the largest share of new lending for education in fiscal 2009, followed by Africa with $720 million; Latin American countries with $711 million; South Asia with $648 million; Europe and Central Asia with $357 million; and the Middle East and North Africa with $68 million.
Almost every education project focuses on improving educational quality, and nearly 90 percent of new projects include support for teacher training, and two-thirds include a component to upgrade or expand the use of learning materials. About half of all projects involve the expansion of secondary education, which is surging in many countries, following increases in primary enrollment and completion. (See http://www.worldbank.org/education.)
Health, Nutrition, and Population
Lending for HNP reached an unprecedented $2.9 billion in fiscal 2009, a threefold increase over the previous year's commitments. The funds will be used to achieve better health results in low-income countries by strengthening their health systems; boost effective prevention and treatment of communicable diseases; and improve child and maternal health, and hygiene and sanitation.
During fiscal 2009, HNP presented the Board with a progress report on the implementation of "Healthy Development"—the Bank's strategy for HNP results—which was approved in May 2007. The progress report, which took into account the recent IEG 1997-2007 evaluation of the HNP sector, described the Bank Group's efforts to achieve HNP results for the poor— health improvements and financial protection and, as a means to those ends, strengthening health systems.
According to IEG's recent evaluation of HNP support, the Bank Group has provided $17 billion in country-level project financing and $873 million in private health and pharmaceutical investments since 1997, in addition to policy advice and analytic work. Key health and nutrition outcomes have improved in every developing region, but progress has been uneven among countries.
In its March update to the Board, the HNP sector described how it had located senior program implementation experts in Ethiopia, Mali, Mozambique, and Nepal and plans to locate additional experts in nine more African countries by 2011. The Bank also established two African
regional health system hubs, Dakar and Nairobi, which will provide expert advice to country policy makers on health financing, governance, service delivery, supply chains and pharmaceuticals, and human resources for health.
HIV/AIDS
To help fill critical gaps in country HIV prevention, treatment, and mitigation programs, the Bank disbursed $290 million for existing projects and committed $325.84 million in new funding in fiscal 2009.
The Bank completed important analytical pieces on HIV in fiscal 2009. A rapid survey in 71 countries of the impact of the economic crisis (with UNAIDS) is part of donor efforts to prevent disruptions in treatment and prevention programs. New analysis in South Asia gave important insights into the welfare and fiscal costs of HIV even where prevalence is low. Synthesis analyses (with UNAIDS) of all available data provided new insights into the patterns of infection and main factors driving the epidemic in Kenya, Lesotho, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, and 14 countries in West Africa. (See http://www.worldbank.org/aids.)
Pandemic Preparedness
The Bank has actively assisted countries worldwide to deploy avian and human influenza control strategies and pandemic preparedness plans. The Bank's Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response has a ceiling of $1 billion from IBRD and IDA, and the Avian and Human Influenza Trust Fund Facility has pledges of $125 million. The primary focus of these operations has been the strengthening of animal and human health systems, disease surveillance, and country veterinary services, in close collaboration with its global, regional, and country partners.
Social Protection and Labor
The Bank's investment in social safety net operations is projected to rise to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2009-11, more than triple the spending of the previous three years. This lending includes a combination of rapid safety net response programs and conditional cash transfers.
In early 2009, the Bank released a joint HDN-PREM report—"How Should Labor Market Policy Respond to the Financial Crisis?"—that suggested ways in which middle- and low-income countries might best respond to the effects of the global crisis on labor markets. The report encourages middle-income countries to consider expanding active labor market and income support programs for the unemployed. For low-income countries, the report recommends scaling up public works and targeting microcredit schemes.
In response to the surge of interest in social safety nets since the onset of the global crisis, the HDN published For Protection and Promotion: The Design and Implementation of Effective Safety Nets in late
2008.	Based on the Bank's work in more than 100 countries, the book addresses why countries need social safety net programs, what type of programs are best suited to individual countries' needs, and how such programs can be developed for maximum effectiveness. (See http:// www.worldbank.org/sp.)
Gender
Impressive progress was made toward implementing Gender Equality as Smart Economics, the Bank's Gender Action Plan. By the end of fiscal
2009,	the plan had helped finance more than 150 activities in over 70 countries. The activities promote investments that better integrate women into the economy by increasing their access to land, labor, credit, and product markets.
Bank staff are paying particular attention to gender issues during the global economic crisis, which poses a serious threat to poor women and girls in 33 developing countries, according to Bank estimates. Though women are especially vulnerable in this crisis, they can also be agents of change. For this reason, the bulk of the Gender Action Plan's remaining funds in fiscal 2009—about $3 million—have been reserved to help ensure that the Bank Group's emergency response, implemented through its Vulnerability Financing Facility, will support participation by women and girls.
During fiscal 2009, the Board approved a variety of projects that successfully address gender issues. These included $50 million in additional financing to a savings and rural finance program in Mexico, $35 million to a program in Bangladesh that addresses disability and children at risk, and $30 million to a program in Afghanistan designed to strengthen health activities for the rural poor. The Bank also launched the Adolescent Girls Initiative (see box 1.6) and released two important publications, Girls' Education in the 21st Century: Gender Equality, Empowerment, and Economic Growth and Equality for Women: Where Do We Stand on Millennium Development Goal 3? (See http://www. worldbank.org/gender.)
improving engagement in
FRAGILE AND CoNFLICT-AFFECTED STATES
A billion people live in countries affected by fragility and conflict. Poverty rates average 54 percent compared with 22 percent for low-income countries as a whole. These countries, which are defined
by weak institutions and the impact of warfare, constitute a protracted development challenge in which results are hard to achieve.
While the risk of failure in these countries is high, the risk of inaction is even higher: the annual global cost of conflict is estimated to be around $100 billion. Aside from the lives lost and damaged because of conflict and the scale of human suffering it creates, conflict also destroys assets and institutions. Recovering and rebuilding takes many years, and the efforts don't always succeed; 40 percent of postconflict countries relapse into conflict within 10 years.
Countries that have achieved reductions in poverty suggest that development depends on an effective state that delivers core services such as security, rule of law, and other public goods. Countries at the end of conflict often need help to build an effective state. Such assistance needs to be comprehensive and requires the integration of security and diplomatic and development support.
During fiscal 2009, the Bank continued to provide state-building support to a large number of conflict-affected countries. This support involved all sectors, ranging from public administration, community development, and infrastructure to social services. The Bank also continued to play an important donor-coordination role, administering multidonor trust funds in countries such as Afghanistan.
The Bank's capacity to provide financial support to fragile and conflict-affected countries was enhanced in the 15th Replenishment of IDA resources. The Bank's State and Peace-Building Fund complimented the support made by IDA by providing financing for countries in arrears and for small and urgent activities not easily funded under regular IDA credit or grant operations. Established in April 2008, the fund received its first annual Bank contribution of $33.3 million, as well as $17.3 million from other donors, in fiscal 2009, and approved some $26.9 million in grants to Colombia, Cote d'Ivoire, Georgia, Guinea Bissau, Haiti, and Thailand.
Coordinated efforts are essential for successful aid interventions in fragile and conflict-affected countries. The UN-World Bank Partnership Framework for Crisis and Post-Crisis Situations, signed in October 2008, provides the foundation for the two institutions to work together more effectively. As a result of this and other agreements, in fiscal 2009 the Bank began working more closely with the UN, the European Commission, and other partners to assess disaster- and conflict-related damage in Georgia, Haiti, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen.
During fiscal 2009, the Bank modified its operational and human resource policies to enable the institution to provide lending quickly after the end of conflict or natural disasters, and to increase staff numbers in Bank offices in fragile and conflict-affected areas.
STRENGTHENING SUPPoRT
for middle-income countries
Middle-income countries are home to nearly 70 percent of the world's poor. Most middle-income countries face constraints in mobilizing the funds needed to invest in infrastructure, health, education, and the reform of policies and institutions essential to improving the investment climate. While some are able to borrow on foreign markets or access risk-management instruments, only a few have achieved investment-grade ratings, so maturities are often short and rates high.
The global crisis is hitting these economies hard. The growing worldwide downturn, with falling trade, commodity prices, tourism, remittances, and investment, is leading to collapsing growth and rising unemployment, slowing their strong growth performance and adversely affecting their efforts to reduce poverty. Middle-income countries are also facing difficult credit market conditions, with limited access to capital markets and vastly higher spreads. The Bank is responding vigorously through analytical work and lending, with both
The Adolescent Girls Initiative—launched by the Bank in partnership with governments and the Nike Foundation and other private sector partners in October 2008—aims to smooth the transition from school to productive employment for girls and women ages 16-24 by helping them complete their education, build skills that match market demand, and find
mentors and job placements. It offers potential employers incentives to hire, train, and retain young women.
The first pilot of the program was launched in Liberia in mid-2009. Similar project initiatives are being prepared for Afghanistan, Nepal, Rwanda, and South Sudan, each of which will receive $3 million to $5 million.
crisis response and precautionary elements focused on capital market access, social safety nets, and sustaining infrastructure expenditures.
IBRD lending to middle-income countries almost tripled in fiscal 2009, to $32.9 billion. This includes a substantial increase in commitments to Latin America and the Caribbean, which reached $13.8 billion, and a $2.125 billion loan for the Kazakhstan Southwest Corridor Road Rehabilitation Project, which is expected to bring much-needed economic stimulus to some of Kazakhstan's poorest provinces. As part of the government's International Transit Corridor Development Program, this loan will benefit not only Kazakhstan, but also the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. IBRD lending volumes are expected to remain strong over fiscal 2009-11.
Beyond the financial crisis response, the Bank has significantly increased its support to middle-income countries, responding to demand for both traditional and innovative products. It has improved the delivery of customized development solutions, and introduced a range of financial and nonfinancial innovations, including simple, easily replicable projects, mechanisms for additional financing of successful projects, and revisions to emergency and rapid response lending policies. The Country Systems for Financial Management and Safeguards Pilot, approved by the Board in April 2008, has been extended to national procurement systems, and investment lending procedures are being revised and streamlined. (See http://www. worldbank.org/middleincomecountries.)
MAINSTREAMING GoVERNANCE AND ANTICoRRUPTioN
The Bank intensified mainstreaming of governance and anticorruption into country and sector operations and programs in fiscal 2009, moving forward with its strategy to strengthen governance and anticorruption efforts
Box 1.7	ANTICORRUPTION INITIATIVES
(see box 1.7). A Governance and Anticorruption Council meets monthly to oversee Bank-wide implementation of efforts and address challenges.
In about a dozen countries—including Albania, Bangladesh, Honduras, Mongolia, Nepal, and Zambia—the council oversees good practice in mainstreaming governance and anticorruption through diagnostics of governance constraints to development effectiveness, dialogue with stakeholders on governance and anticorruption issues, and integrating governance and anticorruption dimensions across project portfolios.
Regional Vice Presidencies have integrated governance and anticorruption into risk-management frameworks, and pilots have been launched in important areas such as country procurement systems. Substantial additional financing has been made available for the governance and anticorruption initiative, from both the Bank (which has committed about $27 million in scale-up funds over two years) and bilateral partners. The Governance Partnership Facility, funded by about $65 million from the Netherlands,
Norway, and the United Kingdom's Department for International Development, has enabled country teams to launch a range of initiatives to mainstream governance and anticorruption activities into Bank operations.
The Development Impact Evaluation Initiative
Impact evaluations deliver scientifically valid estimates of the causal effect of development programs on the well-being of their beneficiaries. This is done by comparing outcomes between treatment and comparison groups. If development programs are implemented under the leadership of the client, they can genuinely transform the way decisions are being made at implementing agencies.
The Bank's Integrity (INT) Vice Presidency investigates allegations of fraud and corruption in Bank-financed projects, including allegations of possible staff involvement. Since its creation in 2001, INT has handled more than 3,300 cases. It presents its findings to the Bank's senior management or, as warranted, to the Sanctions Board, which in turn decides on corrective measures to be taken.
As a result of INT investigations, the Bank has debarred 355 companies and individuals. In addition to conducting single-scope
investigations, INT consolidates related allegations so that a single but multifaceted investigation can have impact across regions and sectors. Enhanced preventive programs and outreach to anticorruption partners promote greater deterrence.
In fiscal 2009, INT implemented all the recommendations of the independent review panel headed by former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker. INT's new Preventive Services Unit has so far advised 68 Bank project teams on mitigating and addressing corruption risks. (See http://www.worldbank.org/integrity.)
Within the Bank, the Development Impact Evaluation Initiative (DIME) aims to strengthen the role of impact evaluation in institutional development. DIME evaluations involve the participation of relevant government agencies and local researchers. This involvement not only helps ensure ownership, it also builds local capacity through learning by doing.
Through the combined efforts of regions and networks, the Bank has completed 139 impact evaluations. It is currently conducting 221 impact evaluations in 52 countries. These evaluations are conducted as
part of multicountry thematic programs designed to address developmental questions of universal import and create communities of practice for sharing evidence and good practices. This fiscal year the Bank began new multicountry initiatives in agricultural adaptations, local governance and accountability, and adolescent girls, and greatly expanded its program in HIV/AIDS. Ongoing programs are in the areas of raising accountability and quality in education; making health systems work; controlling malaria; improving rural infrastructure and the water supply; strengthening safety nets; improving youth and employment outcomes; and upgrading urban areas.
DIME systematically reviews evidence of impact across countries. Bank researchers prepared a report this year on conditional cash transfer programs and are preparing a report on education service delivery.
AgriculturalADAPTation (AADAPT), a new program created in fiscal 2009, seeks to address the need for a radical shift in the path of agricultural development and adaptation to climate change. In April 2009, delegations from 12 countries, operational staff from the Bank and other development institutions, and researchers from half a dozen national and international academic institutions developed learning strategies for their programs to serve as the basis for AADAPT support moving forward. By using Bank operations as learning tools and fostering the development of a cross-country community of practice, AADAPT will generate dynamic operationally useful learning on agriculture and land management. (See http://www.worldbank.org/dime.)
Civil Society
World Bank-civil society relations grew closer over fiscal 2009. The extensive policy dialogue carried out during four high-level roundtables on the food and financial crises between Bank management and leading international civil society organization (CSO) leaders was clear evidence of shared commitments to address the crises. This was further reflected in the growing number of CSOs, and especially their senior leaders, attending the Bank's Annual and Spring Meetings.
Fiscal 2009 also witnessed extensive consultation efforts between the Bank and a wide array of CSOs on the review of the climate change and information disclosure policies. At the country level, civil society has participated in the preparation of over 80 percent of Bank-funded projects approved in fiscal 2009. CSOs have been involved in the preparation of about 87 percent of full Country Assistance Strategies, and 100 percent of full Poverty Reduction Strategies, as well as in the formulation of other policy and strategy documents. (See http://www. worldbank.org/civilsociety.)
AFRICA
THE FOOD, FUEL, AND GLOBAL ECONOMiC CRiSES
Growth in Africa accelerated from 3.1 percent in 2000 to 6.1 percent in
2007,	a result of improved macroeconomic policies, favorable commodity prices, and significant increases in aid, capital flows, and remittances. Economic performance was also accompanied by improvements in governance and accountability. During that period, the region made headway toward reducing poverty and achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The proportion of Africans living on less than $1.25 a day fell from 58 percent in 1996 to 50 percent in the first quarter of 2009. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS stabilized, primary school enrollment increased, and progress was being made in other areas of human development.
The global financial crisis, coming in the wake of the food and fuel crises in 2007-08, is having a major impact on African countries through declines in commodity prices, tourism earnings, exports, remittances, and private capital flows. The crisis threatens to derail the progress of the previous years. Remittance inflows, which were about $20 billion a year to the region before the financial crisis, have fallen by 4 to 8 percent, hitting countries such as Lesotho, where remittances normally account for 29 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), particularly hard. Private capital flows—which had surged to $53 billion in 2007 and were financing much-needed infrastructure and commodity-based investments—fell by 40 percent in the second half of fiscal 2009. Growth is now projected at only 1.7 percent for 2009, which will slow progress toward the MDGs, even for countries like Ghana that were close to halving poverty by 2015.
MiTiGATiNG THE iMPACT OF THE CRiSiS
The World Bank Group has responded decisively to help African countries deal with the crises. It is supporting countries in preparing contingency plans. It is also providing advisory support on policies that could help sustain the momentum of reforms and maintain progress on critical institutional and governance issues, including through the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Plus Plus (EITI++) approach aimed at improving the management of the commodity value chain in resource-rich countries such as Mozambique and Zambia.
Lending to the region reached a record level, increasing 44.3 percent in fiscal 2009 to $8.2 billion, an amount that supported 99 projects:
$362 million in loans from IBRD and $7.9 billion in IDA commitments, including $2 billion in grants and $45.5 million in HIPC grants. Two African countries—Cote d'Ivoire and Togo—reached the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative Decision Point, and Burundi and the Central African Republic reached the HIPC completion point. Fiscal 2009 lending to Africa included fast tracking and front loading of IDA support to countries with urgent financial needs, for example, the Central African Republic and Ghana. IDA also provided a $100 million fast-track credit to the Democratic Republic of Congo to finance infrastructure maintenance and teachers' salaries.
The Bank increased its involvement with Africa's middle-income countries through advisory support and deployed new, more flexible financing instruments to help these emerging economies better weather the crisis. For example, IBRD supplemented a development policy loan to Mauritius with a deferred drawdown option. In addition,
IFC committed $300 million in top-up financing for viable privately funded infrastructure projects experiencing financial distress.
WEATHERiNG THE FOOD CRiSiS AND STRENGTHENiNG AGRiCULTURE
Africa was a major focus of the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP), which has provided emergency assistance to several of the countries hardest hit by the food crisis. GFRP financed safety net programs, school feeding and food-for-work programs, and seed and fertilizer purchases. The program also provided budget support to governments whose fiscal balances were impacted by the food and fuel price spikes.
In total, the Bank committed approximately $1.4 billion in new lending to accelerate agricultural growth and productivity in fiscal 2009, a threefold increase over fiscal 2008. In Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria, support was provided to small- and medium-scale producers of cereals, horticultural products, fish, meat, and dairy products to make operations more competitive and to boost sales and earnings. The East Africa Agricultural Productivity Program, approved in June 2009, will support cooperation among Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania in generation and dissemination of new technology, notably pertaining to wheat, rice, fodder, cassava, and dairy cattle.
COMBATiNG DiSEASE AND STRENGTHENiNG HEALTH SYSTEMS
Since 2001, the Multicountry HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) has provided $1.8 billion to Africa (including $218 million in commitments in fiscal 2009) for prevention and treatment in more than 30 countries. The first phase of MAP reached about 200 million people through HIV prevention programs, gave access to services for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission to more than 1 million women, and supported orphans and vulnerable children in 22 countries. Through concerted country and donor efforts, more than 2.1 million people in Africa are now receiving HIV/AIDS treatment, and 16 countries have reached 25 percent coverage of services supporting the prevention of mother-to-child transmission.
To combat malaria, the Bank committed more than $1 billion in fiscal 2009 for Phase II (2009-12) of its Booster Program for Malaria Control in Africa. The first phase contributed significantly to the provision of bed nets to 72 percent of households in Zambia (up from 5 percent coverage in 2004), more than 90 percent of households in Ethiopia (up
from 5 percent in 2004), and the entire under-five population of Benin. Under Phase II, the Bank will focus on two of the most harshly impacted countries in Africa—the Democratic Republic of Congo and Nigeria— which together account for 30 to 40 percent of all malaria deaths worldwide.
In fiscal 2009, the Bank also launched Health Systems for Outcomes, a new program in the areas of health financing; human resources for health; pharmaceuticals and supply chains; governance and service delivery; infrastructure; and information and communication technology. The program supports Benin, Burundi, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, and Zambia.
SUppORTiNG EDUCATiON
As with the health sector, the Bank's support to Africa's education sector in Africa leverages other partners' contributions and scales up government-owned programs. In fiscal 2009, IDA commitments for the education sector and training amounted to $697 million, up from $368 million the previous year. In addition, the Bank processed grants from the Education for All Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund amounting to $359 million to support basic education in nine countries in fiscal
2009,	bringing the total number of African countries that benefit from the Catalytic Fund to 20, and the total amount of grants to $1.4 billion.
Analytical work, nonlending technical assistance, and policy dialogue complement the Bank's IDA/IBRD operations in Africa. For example, the New Economy Skills in Africa Program, which initially focused on information and communications technology, was launched in eight African countries—Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, and Tanzania. Building on the study Accelerating Catch Up: Tertiary Education for Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa, the region launched a tertiary education program that will help countries advance policy dialogue on higher-education financing.
SCALiNG Up iNFRASTRUCTURE
AND SuppORTiNG REGiONAL SOLuTiONS
The Bank's infrastructure lending rose to $3.3 billion in fiscal 2009 (twice the level of 2006) to help reduce the impact of the financial crisis on the state of infrastructure, and set the stage for postcrisis recovery and growth. The Bank is increasing its support to regional projects in pursuit of the regional infrastructure priorities outlined by the African Union, the New
Partnership for Africa's Development, and the Regional Economic Commissions, and in close partnerships with the African Development Bank and other bilateral and multilateral institutions.
The Bank invested a total $1.4 billion in the energy (includes mining) sector in Africa in fiscal 2009. That amount supported institutional reform, capacity expansion, transmission, and rural and renewable energy, including $181 million for the Southern Africa Power Pool and investments in countries such as Benin, the Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Kenya, Mali, and Nigeria. IDA and IBRD commitments for transportation in Africa were $1.1 billion in fiscal 2009. Investments in water supply and sanitation and urban development benefited Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Lesotho, and Liberia. Information and communication technology investments were approved for Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, and Tanzania.
RESpONDiNG TO CLiMATE CHANGE
Africa is facing an annual loss of 1 to 2 percent annual GDP because of climate variability. Global temperature increases are expected to lead to reduced rainfall, water shortages, and compressed growing periods in Western and Southern Africa, and to increased rainfall, heavier flooding, and fiercer and more frequent cyclones in Northeast Africa. In fiscal
2009,	the Bank prepared a strategy to better integrate climate change in its activities in Africa, and started mainstreaming this strategy into investments and analytical work, initially in Ethiopia and Mozambique. (See http://www.worldbank.org/afr.)
SpOTLiGHT ON RESuLTS
Maina Gichohi uses a stretch of the Northern Corridor every day as he drives into Nairobi for work and business. "Recent improvements on this road have made the ride into the city so much easier and cheaper," he says. "It was a while in coming, but I am glad we are finally getting there!" Improvements on the corridor constitute a major objective of the Northern Corridor Transport Improvement Project (NCTIP) and the East Africa Trade and Transport Facilitation Project (EATTFP), both of which aim to lower transport cost and foster growth in trade among three East African Community member states—Kenya, Tanzania , and Uganda. Project benefits have spilled over to Burundi, the eastern portion of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and Sudan.
Bank Group interventions involving East Africa's main trade corridors— the Northern Corridor from Mombasa to Kigali, and the Central Corridor from Dar es Salam to Kigali—combine physical infrastructure, institutional support to public and private stakeholders, and measures to facilitate trade activity. The NCTIP and the EATTFP have improved transactions at the Mombasa Port, reducing the movement of goods from arriving ships by more than 24 hours and cutting road transit between Mombasa to Kigali and the time it takes to cross the border
between Kenya and Uganda. Road improvements have also caused vehicle operating costs to fall.
Maina works along the stretch of the Northern Corridor that runs from Mombasa to Kampala. It is among the busiest in the region, with 10 percent traffic growth per year, and is considered the backbone of the Kenyan economy and its neighbors. Nearly 90 percent of Uganda's and 70 percent of Rwanda's trade goes through the corridor. The rehabilitation efforts supported by the Bank currently help reduce transport costs to executives like Maina and commercial transporters.
Regional rehabilitation projects under implementation in this and other major trade corridors in Africa are helping reduce transport costs, improving access and trade conditions in coastal and landlocked countries. For example, the CEMAC Transit-Transport Facilitation Project will provide all-weather road access to the
4	million inhabitants of the Central African Republic and the 4 million to
5	million persons living in Northern Cameroon. Similarly, it will diminish the in-port time at Cameroon's Douala port by 30 percent and lower transit times across that country to the Central African Republic by 20 percent.
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
As a result of the global financial crisis, growth in the low- and middle-income countries of the East Asia and Pacific region slowed sharply during 2009, falling for the first time since 2001. Real economic growth in the region is projected to reach just 5.3 percent in 2009, down from
8.0	percent in 2008 and 11.4 percent in 2007.
Although this level of growth still compares favorably with that of other regions, the people of East Asia and Pacific—especially the poorest and most vulnerable—have been deeply affected by the worst global economic and financial crisis in generations. Prospects may be better than those in other developing regions, but concerns remain that a return to higher growth will be slow to materialize, with negative implications for employment generation, living standards, and poverty reduction.
The region's middle-income countries—China, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand—were able to withstand the initial wave of impacts because of the structural reforms implemented after the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. But the collapse in global demand and the sharp contraction in exports and industrial production now have affected every country in the region. Especially hard hit have been countries that depend heavily on the manufacture and export of electronics (the Philippines), commodities (Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, and Timor-Leste), and garments (Cambodia and the Pacific Island economies).
With jobs being shed and remittance inflows falling, the pace of poverty reduction across the region is slowing. More than 10 million people who would otherwise have moved out of poverty are
expected to remain below the poverty line as a result of the financial crisis.
East Asian governments responded quickly to the crisis. All middle-income countries adopted fiscal stimulus packages and low-income countries sought additional support from their development partners.
A number of countries acted early to strengthen social protection measures. China made a one-time cash payment to 74 million poor people, including millions of rural residents, and introduced a major health reform package aimed at increasing poor people's access to health care. Indonesia strengthened a targeted cash assistance program for the poor, and the Philippines put a conditional cash transfer program in place.
world BANK AssisTANcE
To address the impacts of the global financial crisis, the World Bank adjusted its strategy in East Asia and Pacific in fiscal 2009. While long-term priorities remain unchanged, emphasis was placed on managing the social and economic impacts of the crisis in the short term by helping governments stimulate their economies and maintain essential social and infrastructure investments. The Bank also lent its analytical expertise by providing detailed analysis of the potential social and economic impacts of the crisis.
The Bank approved $8.2 billion for East Asia and Pacific in fiscal 2009 for 40 development projects, almost twice the $4.5 billion financed in fiscal 2008. Support included $6.9 billion in IBRD loans and $1.2 billion in IDA commitments, including $36.4 million in grants.
RESPONDING TO GLOBAL CRISES
Many countries in the East Asia and Pacific region were just beginning to recover from the catastrophic rise in fuel and food prices in 2008 when the global financial crisis hit. To help them weather both crises, the Bank increased its support throughout the region in fiscal 2009.
In Indonesia, the Bank is helping support poor communities in urban and rural areas through $415 million in additional block grant financing for community-level activities such as local infrastructure projects, improvements to school facilities, and direct support to poor families to help them send their children to school. This financing builds on Indonesia's well-performing, decade-long National Community Empowerment Program.
The Bank also approved a $600 million loan in support of an innovative school grants program called School Operational Assistance-Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and Accountability. The program aims to increase access to quality education for all children ages 7-15 and to strengthen community participation in school management. It is also being used as a way to increase direct support to families hit by job losses resulting from the financial crisis.
In the Philippines, a $200 million development policy loan is helping the country address the emergency created by high food prices. The loan supports measures that strengthen social protection and safety nets for poor and vulnerable households, including a new conditional cash transfer program.
In Lao PDR, a $3 million Global Food Crisis Response Program grant is helping reduce seasonal and natural disaster-related food shortages by bolstering rice production from small farms. The Bank is also piloting a conditional cash transfer scheme designed to increase the use of maternal and child health services. In Vietnam, the Bank is helping the government finance its fiscal stimulus package, which emphasizes investment in infrastructure.
In Mongolia, which has been hit hard by plummeting commodity prices, the government has put in place a program of reforms aimed at cushioning the impacts of the crisis and reducing the effects of boom and bust cycles on its minerals-based economy. The Bank and other development partners are supporting the government's policy reform agenda, including through a planned series of development policy credits.
Much-expanded Bank work in the Pacific, including the doubling of staff and a new office in the Solomon Islands, is helping meet demand from Pacific Island countries, Papua New Guinea, and Timor-Leste. These
countries are seeking the Bank's technical support in developing employment-generating programs targeting youth.
On a much larger scale, the Bank has been working with the Asian Development Bank and the governments of Australia and Japan to put in place a contingent financing support program for Indonesia that can be used if economic conditions worsen. The Bank's support of $2 billion constitutes the largest component of this public expenditure facility.
The Indonesian government can access the funds to finance important social and infrastructure programs if needed, allowing critical public services and investments to continue despite the economic downturn.
RESPONDiNG To NATuRAL Disasters
Exactly a month after the devastating May 2008 earthquake in Wenchuan, which killed almost 70,000 people, the government of China and the Bank organized an international workshop on international good practice in reconstruction. These efforts laid the groundwork for a $710 million emergency recovery loan, approved by the Board in fiscal 2009. The loan is helping to finance new infrastructure in quake-hit areas and rebuild health and education facilities in Sichuan and Gansu Provinces.
Cyclone Nargis, which killed about 146,000 people in Myanmar in May 2008, destroyed or damaged some 800,000 homes and laid waste to vast areas of the country's farmland. In fiscal 2009, the Bank worked with the United Nations and bilateral donors to help the Association of Southeast Asian Nations build its capacity to respond to future natural disasters and humanitarian crises.
addressing the challenges of climate change
Groundbreaking work on the dual challenges of reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the impacts of climate change continues across the East Asia and Pacific region. In China, a $120 million ecofarming project is helping farm households integrate biogas into their production systems and channel carbon credits back to households. Lessons from the project will help guide the country's national rural biogas program. A $19.7 million Global Environment Facility grant is supporting the closure of inefficient coal-fired power generation units in Shanxi, Shandong, and Guangdong Provinces. In Vietnam, a $202 million IDA credit is helping the country increase the amount of electricity it generates from renewable sources.
In the Philippines, the Bank is using the Clean Development Mechanism to help energy providers such as wind farms and other
industries benefit from the market for greenhouse gas emission reductions. The Bank helped the Philippines reduce greenhouse emissions by purchasing emission reductions from companies and public authorities through the various carbon finance facilities that the Bank manages.
To help the region's cities identify their vulnerabilities to climate change, the Bank joined the United Nations' International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery to produce the Climate-Resilient Cities primer. This "how to" guide for local governments helps them identify vulnerabilities and develop plans to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters and climate events.
building partnerships
The Bank places great emphasis on building partnerships to expand its knowledge base and extend the reach of its development outcomes
across the East Asia and Pacific region. A partnership with the University of Southern California (USC) established in 2009 combines USC's urban and social planning expertise with the Bank's skills in sustainable development. The new World Bank-Singapore urban hub, which will provide advice and assistance on practical solutions to major urban challenges facing developing countries builds on both institutions' expertise in finding workable solutions to urban problems.
And the Bank's new Bangkok-based governance hub, which started work in January 2009, is reaching out to academic institutions, civil society organizations, and governments across the region to find the most effective ways to address governance and anticorruption challenges. It is connecting the Bank with leading research, professional, and civil society organizations to strengthen its operations and increase its understanding of changes under way across the region. (See http:// www.worldbank.org/eap.)
spotlight on results
For Cosme Duberte, 45, resident of a small rural town in the Philippine province of Bohol, life started to change just after he switched on his first fluorescent light in early 2009 (see photo, page 34). It was confirmation that, at last, electricity had reached his remote mountainous village, courtesy of a community-driven project funded by the Bank.
"The children can now work on their assignments at night, and their grades have improved," says the proud father of seven. His wife, he explains, has started a small business preparing cassava cakes and ice candy for sale at the village and town centers. A farmer and carpenter with entrepreneurial inclinations, he has also started accepting orders for his furniture-making business. "With electricity, I can work into the night," he says, adding that he is gradually saving money to buy power tools for his business.
Pointing to the nearby concrete pylons that bring electricity into the village, Cosme explains that it took 24 people from the community to haul them up the hills and then set them in place with their bare hands. Their labor was the community's contribution
to the electrification project, the bulk of the money for which came from a grant from KALAHI-CIDSS, a community-driven development program being implemented by the government of the Philippines and funded by the Bank.
KALAHI is an acronym for the Filipino phrase Kapitbisig Laban Sa Kahirapan, which means "linking arms against poverty." CIDSS stands for the Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services. The project aims to strengthen local communities' participation in barangay (local district) governance and develop local capacity to design, implement, and manage development activities that reduce poverty.
KALAHI-CIDSS trains villagers in project planning, technical design, and financial management and procurement, building a cadre of future leaders at the local level. The project provides villagers with structured opportunities for accessing information, expressing their opinions, and influencing local governance, placing emphasis on transparency. The use of funds is announced at public meetings, and information about community projects is posted on community notice boards.
SOUTH ASIA
South Asia has experienced nearly a decade of robust economic growth, averaging 6 percent a year since 2000. This strong growth has translated into declining poverty and impressive progress on human development. The region's growth prospects are weakening, however, in the face of the deteriorating global economy.
South Asian countries have taken various monetary and fiscal policy measures in response to the crisis. Additional actions will be needed, however, to reduce the impact and pave the way for a resumption of rapid growth. The World Bank is advocating for policies that provide fiscal stimulus, invest in sound public infrastructure projects, create a favorable investment climate, and scale up existing safety net programs to protect the poor.
world BANK AssisTANcE
The Bank's ongoing strategy for South Asia comprises three pillars: accelerating and sustaining growth, making development inclusive, and strengthening human development. Promoting public accountability and good governance is a common foundation for these three pillars. The Bank also recognizes that South Asia represents large and growing contrasts—some areas are middle income, a large segment is still low income, and there are a growing number of countries in conflict, which require specially tailored solutions in the Bank's support.
The Bank approved a total of 36 projects for South Asia in fiscal 2009, $1.3 billion in IBRD loans and $4.1 billion in IDA commitments, including
$272.6 million in grants. Complementing the strong lending portfolio is the Bank's analytic and advisory work. Relevant parts of this work are being refocused to provide rapid-response policy advice to improve the macroeconomic and investment environment and to reverse the slowdown in investment. The Bank is also providing ongoing analytical assistance to help South Asian countries strengthen their safety net programs to ensure they reach poor and vulnerable people.
New Interim Strategy Notes for Afghanistan and Nepal were discussed by the Board in fiscal 2009. The Afghanistan strategy focuses on supporting sound national programs that have improved the day-to-day life of millions of Afghans. It also seeks to bolster core government systems as the basis for credible state building, through efforts to strengthen public financial management, fiscal sustainability, and improved transparency and accountability. The Nepal strategy builds on the areas and programs that have been shown to be robust and have a strong emphasis on social inclusion. By adopting a "peace filter," the strategy also intends to improve sensitivity in Bank-financed projects to the root causes of the conflict and social tensions.
RESPONDING TO GLOBAL CRISES
South Asian countries were severely impacted by the increase in world food prices in 2007 and 2008. In Bangladesh, the food price shock pushed some 4 million people into poverty in 2008. In response, the Bank committed $130 million as part of the Global Food Crisis Response
Program (GFRP) to help ease the pressure on the country's budget, under which the government was struggling to fund the expansion of food-related spending, including social protection programs. Under GFRP, Afghanistan received $8 million for the rehabilitation of about 500 small, traditional irrigation schemes.
The Bank is also focused on helping South Asian countries cope with the impact of the global economic crisis. In Pakistan, the Bank approved $500 million to support the government's program to regain and maintain economic stability and steer the economy back onto a higher growth path. In India, the Bank approved a $400 million loan to improve access to finance for the country's small and medium enterprises, which face serious challenges in accessing adequate and timely financing on competitive terms, particularly long-term loans.
investing in infrastructure
The Bank is working to address South Asia's vast urban and rural infrastructure deficits, which often are cited as the greatest constraint to sustained, rapid growth. More than 40 percent of India's population, for example, is without electricity, and the high cost of erratic and insufficient power supply hurts industry as well as households. The new country strategy for India plans to fast-track much-needed infrastructure development. In fiscal 2009, the Bank approved a $400 million loan to the Power Grid Corporation of India, financing designed to increase reliable power exchange between regions and states.
Bangladesh faces similar energy sector problems. Manufacturers surveyed in the Bank's most recent Investment Climate Assessment estimate that power shortages reduce sales by about 12 percent a year. To help address the problem, the Bank approved $350 million in fiscal 2009 for the Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project, designed to increase reliable power during periods of peak demand. The project builds on the Bank Group's long history of involvement in Bangladesh's energy sector, including support to the successful Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Program, which has helped bring power to hundreds of thousands of consumers through grid connections and solar home systems. And in Nepal, the Bank committed $89.2 million in response to the country's unprecedented energy crisis, in which grid-based consumers were supplied with electricity for only eight hours per day.
Inadequate road infrastructure is also a critical constraint for sustainable and inclusive growth in South Asia. In Sri Lanka, national roads carry more than 70 percent of all traffic. But uncontrolled roadside
development, years of neglect, and poor road maintenance have resulted in low travel speeds and poor levels of service. To help improve the country's roads, the Bank approved $98 million in additional financing for the ongoing Road Sector Assistance Project, which has so far improved and completed 420 kilometers of national roads across the island.
investing in people
South Asia suffers from some of the worst human deprivation in the world. It has the largest number of undernourished children in the world, and an estimated 26 million children remain out of school. But the region has also made impressive gains. Bangladesh, for example, has achieved gender parity in secondary schools. Building on this achievement, the Bank approved a $130.7 million credit to improve quality and increase access to and equity of secondary education in the country in fiscal 2009.
Similar progress has not been realized in higher education in Bangladesh: at 6 percent, the country's tertiary enrollment rate is one of the lowest in the world. In fiscal 2009, the Bank provided $81 million to improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research in higher education institutions in Bangladesh.
The Bank continues to be heaviliy engaged in South Asia's health sector. In a major new attack on malaria, kala azar, and polio, the Bank provided $521 million to boost prevention, diagnosis, and treatment
services in India. It also continued its support to improve the health sector in Afghanistan with a $30 million grant. The project builds on the health sector's significant achievements since 2001, including a doubling of the number of functioning health care facilities and a 22 percent decline in the infant mortality rate, which is now saving the lives of 80,000 children a year. In Sri Lanka, the Bank committed $24 million to the country's ongoing health service delivery program, with 50 percent going to the conflict-affected Northern and Eastern Provinces to provide basic health services to the more than a quarter of a million internally displaced persons.
protecting vulnerable people
The Bank's strategy for South Asia aims to make growth more inclusive by removing obstacles to growth in lagging regions, sectors, and communities.
In Orissa, India, where half of the state's 38 million people live under the poverty line, the Bank provided a $444 million assistance package to improve the state's road network, enhance its agricultural tank systems, and increase livelihood opportunities for rural poor. The Orissa Rural
Livelihoods Project seeks to empower poor rural people, especially women and disadvantaged groups, through their inclusion in self-help groups.
Similarly, the Bank approved $250 million for the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF), now active in 119 out of Pakistan's 134 districts. Since 2000, the program has facilitated the formation of 80,000 community organizations and provided 1.9 million microcredit loans,
16.000	community infrastructure schemes, and training support for
232.000	people in enterprise development skills.
In Bangladesh, the Bank approved $50 million in additional financing for the Social Investment Program Project to help restore the assets and livelihoods of families affected by Cyclone Sidr. The project has already benefited more than 1,000 villages across Bangladesh. The Bank also provided $75 million to Afghanistan's National Solidarity Program (NSP), a rural development initiative that has reached over 22,000 villages—about 68 percent of the rural population. Since its beginning in 2003, NSP has disbursed over $564 million in block grants to communities to fund more than 44,200 small projects to developing irrigation, power, water supply, and roads. (See http://www.worldbank.org/sar.)
spotlight on results
A New Sense of Security for Earthquake Survivors in Pakistan
Shamim Bibi (see the photo, page 39), 33, lost her husband and daughter in the earthquake that hit Northern Pakistan on October 8, 2005. "When I went to school to check on my children, the school had collapsed. I managed to get two of my kids out alive from the rubble, but my daughter died. After that I went to check on my husband. He also died," said Shamim Bibi.
Her home in Ghan Chatter, a village just outside Muzaffarabad, was left in ruins. Like thousands of other houses, it came crashing down with the first few jolts—in part because of poor construction with substandard material.
In the city of Muzaffarabad, more than 10,000 people died and about half of the city's buildings were destroyed. The scale of the destruction and a difficult mountainous terrain made reconstruction daunting.
To help people rebuild, the government formed the Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority, and, with the Bank's
financial and technical support, launched an ambitious $1.5 billion owner-driven rural housing rebuilding program. The salient features of this program were technical assistance to homeowners and inspection of the reconstruction at various stages to ensure that seismic-resistant designs provided by the program were being followed.
Such house-to-house assistance and inspection entailed a mammoth logistical operation for reaching out to the grant recipients, who are spread over an area of 30,000 square kilometers of mountainous terrain. In three years, some 600,000 households received rapid disbursement of nearly $1.3 billion in housing reconstruction grants.
Shamim Bibi has received grants totaling Rs 175,000 (about $2,200) to rebuild her house. It is one of around 400,000 houses that have been completely rebuilt using earthquake-resistant building techniques. "We built our house according to the design given to us. This is a much better house than before. We are now happy and safe," she said.
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
The global financial and economic crisis has hit Europe and Central Asia hard. Growth in the region fell from 7.1 percent in 2007 to 4.2 percent in
2008,	and is projected to decline to 3.0 percent in 2009.
Nearly 90 million of the region's 480 million people—about 18 percent of the population—have moved out of poverty and vulnerability since 1999. But these gains are now at risk as a result of the financial crisis.
Almost 40 percent of the region's residents are still considered poor or vulnerable, and the number is expected to rise. By the end of 2009, another 25 million people are expected to become poor or vulnerable. By the end of 2010, an additional 10 million people will likely join their ranks.
The very forces of globalization that led to major economic progress since 1990 are now exposing the Europe and Central Asia region's vulnerability and its dependence on the rest of the world. Relatively high current account deficits, elevated external debt levels, very rapid credit growth, and a consumption boom financed by foreign currency borrowing created vulnerabilities in many countries in Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltics and some countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), leaving several of them particularly exposed to the crisis. Sharp drops in commodity prices halted growth in economic powerhouses of the eastern part of the region, including the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan, and hit the less well-off parts of the CIS very hard. An expectation of early integration with the Euro Area led to complacency and relaxation of reform efforts in parts of Central and Eastern Europe.
The effects of the crisis are being felt through three key transmission mechanisms: financial, product, and labor markets. In the financial
EuROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
sector, rollover risks for countries with large current account deficits have created a highly uncertain environment. Industrial output is down, with some countries experiencing double-digit declines in early 2009 relative to 2008, and export demand has fallen sharply. Unemployment is on the rise, with unprecedented job losses of as much as 1 percent a month in some countries and double-digit unemployment forecast for others in the near future. Deep declines in remittances are expected to push millions of people into poverty, with Albania, Armenia, Moldova, and Tajikistan especially hard hit.
world BANK AssisTANcE
The World Bank directed $9.4 billion for Europe and Central Asia in fiscal 2009, $9 billion in loans from IBRD and $384 million in IDA commitments, including $32 million in grants, covering a combined total of 49 projects. In addition to financial support, the Bank continued to provide research and analysis to client countries, including economic updates for individual countries and the region as a whole.
STABiLiZiNG The FiNANCiAL sector
The Bank is working to stabilize the financial sector by providing budget support for reforms in almost half the region's countries, conducting diagnostic work on the banking sector, and helping client countries restructure and recapitalize. In a joint initiative, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, and the Bank Group pledged to provide up to $31 billion to support the world banking sector in the region and to fund lending to
businesses hit by the global economic crisis. Support includes equity and debt finance, credit lines, and political risk insurance.
providing emergency AssisTANcE
In response to emergency requests to address the financial crisis, the Board approved financial support through a Financial Intermediary Loan to Ukraine and is preparing lending operations in a number of other countries, such as Hungary and Latvia. To address the energy crisis, the Board approved the $11 million Emergency Energy Assistance Project for the Kyrgyz Republic, which supports implementation of the government's Energy Emergency Mitigation Action Plan to improve access to energy and increase the reliability of thermal power generation and district heating systems during winter.
preserving jobs and improving infrastucture
To help create jobs in Europe and Central Asia, the Bank is financing labor-intensive infrastructure projects across the region. The $122.5 million Second Rijeka Gateway Project for Croatia aims to help the port of Rijeka meet growing traffic demand through public-private partnerships. In Georgia, $70 million in additional financing will allow the country to scale up and restructure its secondary and local roads while creating jobs. The Bank also approved a $40 million regional and municipal infrastructure project in Georgia in fiscal 2009. A $60 million loan to Belarus will help improve the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of water supply and wastewater treatment services for some 1.7 million consumers, while the $25 million Lifeline Roads Improvement Project in Armenia will upgrade selected sections of the road network, creating much-needed temporary employment in a country that has been severely affected by the crisis.
improving the business environment
One of the ways the Bank is helping prepare the region for the postcrisis period is by supporting client countries seeking to improve their business and investment climate. Much progress has already been made: for the fifth consecutive year, Europe and Central Asia led world regions in reforms to business regulation. Between June 2007 and June 2008, 23 of the region's 25 countries implemented 62 reforms that make it easier to do business. Four of the 10 economies making the most regulatory reforms are in Europe and Central
Asia. Azerbaijan, the world's top regulatory reformer, rose from 97th to 33rd in the global rankings on the ease of doing business. Albania, the runner-up in reforming regulations, rose from 135th to 86th in the global rankings, with reforms in four areas.
In support of countries' response to provide resources for the sector, the Board approved additional financing of $200 million to Turkey and a $50 million loan to Armenia to increase small- and medium-size enterprises' access to finance in fiscal 2009. It also approved a $50 million operation in Serbia to support the government's structural reform program, which includes efforts to improve the business environment. The $20 million Third Programmatic Development Policy Grant to Tajikistan approved in fiscal 2009 is supporting the government's efforts to improve the environment for private sector development, the overall functioning of the public sector, and the delivery of key public services.
supporting the social sectors
As country budgets are squeezed, governments in Europe and Central Asia will be under pressure to reduce spending on social programs that directly help poor and vulnerable people. Efforts are under way to
monitor social spending trends and patterns and to identify crucial expenditures on health, education, and social protection programs that need to be protected in the face of the crisis.
The Bank is actively monitoring the human impacts of the crisis in the region through labor market monitoring, social safety net monitoring, and rapid-response surveys. Ongoing analysis examines the impacts of the crisis on social protection and household welfare, its effect on pensions, the extent to which safety nets are capable of responding to the crisis, and the role of the Bank.
The Bank is also directly supporting efforts to protect people during the crisis through financing safety net, nutrition, and social fund operations in Armenia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, and Tajikistan and to support conditional cash transfers in FYR Macedonia.
promoting institutional
structural reform and open trade policies
The Bank continues to support European and Central Asian countries in adopting institutional structural reforms. As the book Anticorruption in Transition 3 and the latest round of the Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey indicate, most countries are improving
steadily, particularly in the area of legal frameworks, though key challenges remain in the areas of public sector reform, legal and judicial reform, and anticorruption. The Bank's economic and sector work in the region focuses on the need to adjust regulations in order to increase international trade, which remains weak in many countries.
In addition to supporting client countries as they cope with the economic crisis, the Bank is helping them position themselves for the postcrisis period. To do so, it is supporting financial sector reforms, enhanced social protection, and better governance.
addressing global and regional long-term issues
The region launched its Adapting to Climate Change in Europe and Central Asia report in fiscal 2009. The report warns that the impact of climate change will be more significant than expected. This is due to a lingering legacy of environmental mismanagement and the poor state of much of the region's infrastructure, leaving the countries poorly prepared to adapt. The Bank is assisting countries in addressing adaptation to climate change by investing in adaptation pilots, clean technology, and climate resilience projects.
The Bank is also helping the region prepare for the demographic changes it faces. (See http://www.worldbank.org/eca.)
spotlight on results
A Small village Thinks Big
The small Moldovan village of Calfa is becoming even smaller as parents leave their families behind to find work abroad and send money home. More than half the children in the village school have one parent abroad, and in many families both parents work far from home.
Those who have stayed behind are coping. Residents have pitched in at the village primary school, where students now have computers and parents help with a range of activities.
With help from the Social Investment Fund (SIF), supported by the Bank, the village repaired the school's leaky roof and upgraded to a gas boiler so that the school has heat without someone having to stoke the fire all day. The main road of the town, which had decayed to the point that students would come to school covered
in mud, has been resurfaced, and drainage has been installed so that the improvements are not washed away.
The citizens of Calfa paid for 30 percent of the capital cost of each of these projects, with the remainder provided by grants from the SIF. The fund supports projects selected by the community, which are managed by councils made up of community members.
One elderly Calfa couple (see photo, page 43) celebrated their 50th anniversary this year. As the first people in town to be connected to gas, they had every reason to celebrate. "The SIF project has eliminated 50 percent of our workload. We don't have to cut wood," says the husband, Ion Kravtsov, 71 years old. "Where before we had no hot water, now we have a bathroom, we can take showers! Now we have time to enjoy old age"
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
The global financial crisis abruptly halted five years of solid economic growth averaging about 5.3 percent a year in Latin America and the Caribbean. Growth in 2008 was 4.3 percent, and the region is projected to contract by around 2 percent in 2009 before experiencing a recovery of 2.4 percent in 2010.
Many countries in the region entered the crisis in relatively favorable positions, thanks in large part to prudent fiscal policies and the reduction of macroeconomic vulnerabilities during the boom years. As a result of the tightening of financial regulation and supervision that occurred in the wake of the 2001-02 financial crises in several Latin American countries, the region has weathered the current crisis without experiencing a single domestic banking crisis.
Latin America and the Caribbean countries managed to lift 60 million people out of poverty between 2002 and 2008, a trend that is now in danger of being reversed. World Bank projections indicate that as many as 4 million to 6 million people in the region could fall into poverty (those who live on less than $4 per day) by the end of 2009 as a result of the global economic situation.
Economies closely tied to the United States—Mexico and the countries of Central America and the Caribbean—will likely suffer most from a long recession. Mexico, for example, will experience negative growth in 2009. Remittance flows to the region have contracted significantly, with particularly strong negative effects in Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean, including a 6 percent decline in real terms in 2008, with a possible 10 percent decline in 2009. In South America, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay have also been affected.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
Meanwhile, oil-exporting nations such as Ecuador and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela are reducing spending as a result of the plunge in international oil prices.
Countries that managed to save during good times and those with more diversified markets and stronger ties to Asian economies (Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru) will be less affected than other nations. Overall, the best-positioned countries are those with autonomous central banks, flexible exchange rates, inflation-targeting regimes, and sound fiscal processes.
world BANK AssisTANcE
In response to the global crisis, the Bank dramatically increased its support to Latin America and the Caribbean in fiscal 2009. The Bank approved $14 billion in new commitments, almost tripling its regular lending volume, with $13.8 billion in loans from IBRD and $202.5 million in IDA commitments. Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina, respectively, were the largest borrowers, while sectors such as health and social services, public administration and law, and water and sanitation led the region in funding. Support to the region during fiscal 2009 represents 42 percent of IBRD lending and nearly a third of total IBRD/IDA lending.
The Bank offers its clients in the region innovative financial and knowledge products on several issues related to poverty, opportunities for all, climate change, and competitiveness. A new Human Opportunity Index, jointly developed by the Bank and researchers from institutions in Argentina and Brazil, shows how individual country circumstances play into enabling or preventing access to basic services such as potable water, sanitation, electricity, and basic education. This opens up a whole
new field of study dedicated to targeting public policy focused on improving opportunities for all citizens in the region.
MEETiNG The NEEDs oF MiDDLE-iNCOME couNTRIEs
The Bank has customized its regional strategy to meet the increasingly diverse needs of countries in the region. For middle-income countries, the Bank offers an integrated package of services, including analysis and advice, new financial products, and technical assistance.
A committed credit line, known as the deferred drawdown option, was instrumental in several countries. Eight loans with deferred drawdown options approved for five countries in fiscal 2009— Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Peru, and Uruguay—provided an immediate source of liquidity with which to respond to shocks. The new financing instrument reflects the Bank's commitment to assisting governments in providing positive market signals by creating a preventive source of financing.
Active G-20 members such as Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico have become global players. To better respond to these countries' development agendas, the Bank has introduced several innovative programs. During fiscal 2009, for example, it approved a $1.3 billion loan for sustainable environmental management in Brazil, a $1 billion loan that supports efforts to expand access to housing for low-income groups and a $401 million loan for an environmental sustainability development policy project in Mexico, a $330 million loan to Peru to strengthen the new ministry of the environment and improve environmental management in key sectors of the economy, and a $400 million loan to Uruguay in support of the government's reform program and additional financing to face the impact of the global economic crisis.
responding to the influenza A(H1N1) outbreak
To support Mexico's efforts to fight the spread of the Influenza A(H1N1) virus, the Bank approved $25 million for fiscal 2009 and $480 million is under preparation for fiscal 2010. The Bank has provided direct support to several countries in the region to mitigate the impacts of the Influenza A(H1N1) virus.
ASSISTING THE POOREST COUNTRIES
IDA provided $202.5 million in assistance to the poorest countries in Latin America and the Caribbean in fiscal 2009, with interest-free credits and grants to five countries. Bolivia received $30 million in financial
support for the Rural Alliances Project, which aims to improve accessibility to markets for poor rural producers in selected subregions of the country. Two projects totaling $25 million in grant assistance were approved for Haiti to finance the reconstruction of infrastructure destroyed or damaged by the hurricanes and tropical storms that struck the country in August and September 2008. Honduras received a $10 million zero-interest loan to address the food crisis. Nicaraguan authorities received $40 million in grant and credit financial support to improve water and sanitation services.
On June 30, 2009, Haiti was granted $1.2 billion of debt relief by reaching the completion point under the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative approved by the Boards of IDA and the IMF. Haiti is now the 26th country to reach the the HIPC Initiative completion point. Debt service savings resulted from the HIPC Initiative ($265 million) and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative ($972.7 million).
EXPANDING CONDITIONAL CASH
TRANSFER Programs During THE FINANCIAL CRISIS
Latin America and the Caribbean countries pioneered conditional cash transfer programs, which provide cash stipends to families to ensure that children and youth get regular health checkups and attend school. Programs similar to Brazil's Bolsa Famflia (Family Bag) and Mexico's Oportunidades (Opportunities) have been launched in Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica, and Panama. The region's conditional cash transfer programs were expanded with nearly $2.5 billion from the Bank in fiscal 2009 as a way of protecting the most vulnerable from the impact of the global crisis.
crafting new country partnership strategies
The Board endorsed several new Country Partnership Strategies in Latin America and the Caribbean in fiscal 2009, including ones for Argentina, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, and Paraguay. Country strategies approved in fiscal 2008 for Brazil and Mexico have begun to bear fruit in key development areas, such as environmental protection and support to social safety net programs.
A two-year interim strategy was endorsed for Belize in March 2009, a sign of the Bank's reengagement with the country. A new interim strategy was also endorsed for the Plurinational State of Bolivia in June 2009.
IMPROVING COMPETITIVENESS AND MANAGING FOR RESULTS
The Bank is supporting countries' efforts to develop effective and sustainable ways to promote good governance and transparency by strengthening country systems, improving accountability for service delivery, and monitoring and evaluating for results.
To achieve these results, the Bank provided a $154 million loan for the Pernambuco Education Results and Accountability Project in Brazil. The project, which builds on the success of previous projects in this area, aims to improve the quality, efficiency, and equity of public education and increase literacy among children. In Panama, the Bank is continuing to support government efforts to enhance private sector competitiveness, consolidate fiscal discipline, and increase public sector accountability with a new $100 million loan.
LATIN AMERicA: pART oF THE
global climate change solution
In December 2008, the Bank released its annual flagship report for the region, this year entitled Low Carbon, High Growth: Latin American Responses to Climate Change. The report notes that Latin America produces only 6 percent of global emissions from energy sources and has a cleaner energy mix than other regions in the world. The region has abundant hydropower, relies on coal production much less than other regions, and is a leader in sustainable transport. The report concludes that the region is in
a position to lead middle-income countries in reducing emissions from deforestation, breaking the impasse on hydropower development, improving energy efficiency, and transforming urban transport.
regional activities
In April 2009, the Latin America and Caribbean region held a seminar on the financial crisis on the sidelines of the Bank's Spring Meetings. Newly elected President Mauricio Funes from El Salvador was the keynote speaker at the seminar, which included participation by several Spring Meetings delegates.
In November 2008, more than 100 senior lawmakers and executives from key energy companies in the Western Hemisphere met in Mexico. They agreed that efforts to solve the global financial crisis should be economically sustainable and help in the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. The meeting, hosted by the Mexican Congress and cosponsored by the Bank and the Global Legislators Organization (GLOBE), marked the first time lawmakers from the Americas assembled specifically to discuss and agree on measures to address climate change.
In October 2008, the Ministry of Finance of Mexico and the Bank organized the first forum for finance spokespeople from the region. A Web-based platform was launched to provide spokespeople with a forum to continue the conversations and exchanges that began in Mexico. (See http://www.worldbank.org/lac.)
spotlight on results
Socorro Palma lives in a small house in the eastern Mexican state of Puebla. Her home is modest, but its occupants have grand ambitions. All five of Socorro's school-age children attend school, and even Socorro herself has begun to take night classes.
Like millions of other low-income people in Mexico, the Palma family is a beneficiary of Oportunidades, a World Bank-sponsored program that provides financial help and basic services to poor families on the condition that they send their children to school and ensure that they receive adequate health and nutrition care. Additional funding provided by the Bank for the program in fiscal 2009 guarantees assistance for 25 million people, almost a quarter of Mexico's population.
Elsewhere in Latin America, the Bank provided $2.5 billion in support of conditional cash transfers in fiscal 2009. Brazil's Bolsa Famflia, Colombia's Familias en Accion, and conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs regionwide together now serve some 100 million people.
CCT programs have markedly increased enrollments, reduced drop-out rates, and increased the health of children, according to the Bank report Conditional Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and Future Poverty. So compelling are the results that in fiscal 2009 the Bank added six new countries—Bangladesh, Colombia, Kenya, Macedonia, Pakistan, and the Philippines—to its roster of countries receiving support for such programs.
z>xnxm
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
The Middle East and North Africa is also being adversely affected by the global economic crisis. Real gross domestic product (GDP) is projected to grow just 2.2 percent in 2009, down from 6.2 percent in 2008 and from an average of 5.1 percent during 2000-07. High food and fuel prices stoked consumer price inflation, which rose from 7.2 percent in 2007 to 10.6 percent in 2008.
Banks and investment companies in the region were not large holders of subprime mortgage-backed securities, and many Gulf countries were in a strong enough financial position to cushion the large outflows of short-term capital in the second half of 2008. Nonetheless, the global financial crisis affected the financing outlook in the region. Spreads on sovereign debt increased, regional stock market indices suffered sizable declines, foreign direct investment inflows are expected to weaken, export revenues and tourism and trade-related services are declining, and remittances are expected to contract.
The actual impact of the crisis will vary across the region. Members of the Gulf Cooperation Council—Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates—entered the crisis with very strong fiscal and external balances or with a significant financial reserve from revenues during the oil boom. They are in the best position to weather the global economic crisis. Were the price of oil to drop further or the real estate crisis to deepen, even this group of countries could be forced to draw down reserves and cut investments.
Oil-exporting countries with large populations, such as Algeria, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Republic of Yemen entered the crisis with weaker fiscal and current account balances than the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. They also have larger social commitments, such as subsidies, which make it difficult for them to reduce expenditures during a downturn. Non-oil exporting countries such as Djibouti, Jordan, and Lebanon, which are economically linked to the Gulf countries, will experience declines in tourism, remittances, and foreign direct investment from the Gulf countries. In addition, some migrant workers may return home, which will add to social pressures. Countries with strong trade links to Europe (Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia) may suffer more from the crisis than other countries in the region, because lower European demand stifles exports, tourism, remittances, foreign direct investment, and possibly foreign assistance. Job losses by exporters will increase human strife. In the past, these countries have tapped international financial markets to finance their current account deficits—which may be difficult to do in the current environment.
WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
The World Bank approved $1.7 billion in financing for the Middle East and North Africa region in fiscal 2009: $1.6 billion in loans from IBRD and $172 million in IDA commitments, including $129 million in grants. The increase in lending was partly in response to the food, fuel, and financial crises.
The Bank also delivered 37 economic and sector work activities and 74 nonlending technical assistance activities. These activities included the publication of a regional flagship report on private sector development and a regional report on migration; public expenditure reviews for Libya and the Republic of Yemen; and several governance-related reports. Several reports were also initiated in the context of the Arab World Initiative, in areas ranging from regional infrastructure to education and knowledge sharing (see box 1.5, page 18).
REDuciNG iNFRAsTRucTuRE BoTTLENEcKs
While addressing the immediate needs associated with the global recession, the Bank's fiscal 2009 program reflects its ongoing focus on long-term growth. Major infrastructure projects were approved for Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Morocco. The Board approved two large loans to Egypt: a $600 million loan for the Ain Sokhna power project and a $270 million loan for restructuring Egyptian Railways. The $70 million Urban Transport Development Project for Lebanon and the $33 million Amman Development Corridor Project for Jordan focus on removing transport bottlenecks and paving the way for future sustained growth.
iMPROViNG pRIVATE sector DEVELopMENT, COMPETmVENESS, And GoVERNANcE
The Middle East and North Africa region faces the challenge of dealing with both the social difficulties brought on by globalization and the challenge of greater competitiveness. The Bank provided Tunisia with a $250 million loan to increase integration into global markets. In Morocco, the Bank is supporting work that is strengthening the good governance agenda while creating an enabling environment for stability and sustained growth.
Doing business is becoming easier in the region. By the end of fiscal
2008,	two-thirds of the region's economies had introduced an impressive total of 27 reforms. For the third time in four years, Egypt, last year's top regional performer, was among the top 10 global reformers. Other reformers in the region included Djibouti, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, the West Bank and Gaza, and the Republic of Yemen.
supporting sustainable development and natural resource management
Climate change, water stress, and natural resource management are key challenges in the Middle East and North Africa. To deal with them, the Bank provided the Republic ofYemen with $90 million in support of a water sector program and $25 million to aid a rural energy project focused on solar energy. To improve solid waste management, the Bank lent $133 million to Morocco and $25 million to Jordan. In the aftermath of floods in the Republic of Yemen in October 2008, the Bank helped carry out a needs assessment and stepped up its monitoring programs and policy dialogue to improve the country's preparedness for future crises. In March 2009, the Bank approved $35 million in additional financing for flood protection and emergency reconstruction. Earlier in fiscal 2009, the Board approved $15 million in additional financing to promote groundwater and soil conservation in the Republic of Yemen.
educating young people
A challenge in the education sector in the Middle East and North Africa is providing quality education that prepares the region's young people to compete in the global economy. The $25 million Higher Education Reform for the Knowledge Economy Project in Jordan focuses on quality and governance issues, and the $60 million Higher Education Reform for the Knowledge Economy II Project in Jordan builds on these issues and emphasizes the need to provide students enrolled in pretertiary education institutions with increased levels of skills to participate in the knowledge economy.
assisting people in conflict-affected countries
The Bank responded quickly to the conflict in Gaza in fiscal 2009, dispatching an assessment team less than a week after hostilities ceased. A central recommendation emerging from the assessment team's efforts was that the recovery and reconstruction effort be closely linked to ongoing development efforts in Gaza. In practice, this meant continued funding and scaling up of a range of successful donor-financed projects in several key areas, including water and sanitation, electricity, social safety nets, municipal development, and support from nongovernmental organizations. In April 2009, a Bank Group delegation visited Iraq to discuss its investment potential and to support the creation of a healthy business climate.
mainstreaming women into the economy
The Bank initiated or delivered a variety of gender studies and programs in the Middle East and North Africa over the course of fiscal 2009. In Egypt, it undertook an assessment of the gender dimensions of labor market access and constraints. In Jordan, the Bank is developing a program to promote labor market access for young female graduates of community colleges. In Saudi Arabia, it is providing assistance to "urban observatories” in Jeddah and Medinah, which are studying female-headed households. In the Republic of Yemen, it is preparing a gender analysis of public expenditures in the health and education sectors. Through an Institutional Development Fund grant, the Bank is supporting a program measuring the impact of national policies and strategies on gender equality.
The Bank delivered a gender assessment of Lebanon, organized a capacity-building workshop on gender budgeting in Morocco, and released the biennial report "Status and Progress of Women in the Middle East and North Africa,” which examines progress in economic participation, access to education, access to health care, public participation and representation, and legal rights.
expanding fee-based programs
The list of countries in the Middle East and North Africa requesting fee-based programs expanded to 11 in fiscal 2009. Total revenue from
these programs was about $11 million, and demand is expected to remain steady in fiscal 2010. The Strategic Cooperation Program with Gulf countries includes programs and services in Bahrain, the Gulf Cooperation Council Secretariat, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. The programs have become more strategic and multiyear; their volume was close to $6 million in fiscal 2009 and is expected to remain comparable in fiscal 2010.
increasing trade financing and guaranteeing foreign direct investment
During fiscal 2009, IFC scaled up its trade finance program and expanded its technical assistance and advisory services to private investors. For its part, MIGA plans to use its guarantee facility to help secure foreign direct investment in client countries in the Middle East and North Africa.
The Bank also strengthened its partnership with Arab and Islamic development institutions in fiscal 2009. It exchanged experiences on how to design and implement sectorwide approaches in the water and human development sectors; held joint technical workshops and dialogue on project identification, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation; and conducted joint missions to identify, appraise, and supervise projects. (See http://www.worldbank.org/mna.)
spotlight on results
In October 2008, people living in the provinces of Hadramout and Al-Mahara experienced one of the worst floods to hit the Republic of Yemen in more than a decade. Dozens of people were killed, and some 25,000 were displaced from their homes.
The impact on agricultural land and people's livelihoods has been devastating. More than half a million Yemenis suffered significant loss of property or income. Livestock losses exceeded 36,000 head (camels, goats, and cows), and some 60,000 beehives producing the renowned Hadramout honey were reportedly destroyed.
Almost 13,000 acres of agricultural land were significantly damaged by soil erosion, and some 500,000 palm trees were reportedly uprooted.
Less than four months after a rapid assessment of the impact of the flood, the Board approved additional financing of $35 million to support the rehabilitation of key infrastructure facilities in the disaster-affected areas of Hadramout and Al-Mahara, to restore access to roads, and to strengthen local capacity in disaster preparedness, mitigation, and response.
WORLD BANK LENDING
The World Bank mobilizes financing by borrowing from international capital markets (for IBRD) and by allocating grants and credits using contributions from richer member countries (for IDA). It channels these resources to benefit poor people in borrowing member countries.
Lending is tailored to individual country needs, using lending instruments that are becoming increasingly flexible. Figures 3.1-3.3 and table 3.1 summarize combined IBRD-IDA lending in fiscal 2009.
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES
The developing world is poorer than recently thought, as measured by the latest International Comparison Program report. The new international poverty line of $1.25 a day at 2005 prices (the most recent available) is the mean of the national poverty lines for the 10 to 20 poorest countries of the world. The 43 low-income countries and their approximately 973 million (2008) people the World Bank endeavors to serve through IDA support are now at the greatest risk in decades of remaining in poverty for generations to come.
The Role of IDA
IDA is the largest multilateral channel of concessional financing to the world's poorest countries. In fiscal 2009, countries with 2007 gross national income (GNI) per capita of up to $1,095 were eligible for IDA assistance. In addition, IDA supports some countries, including several small island economies, that are above the income cutoff but lack the creditworthiness needed to borrow from IBRD. A total of 79 countries were eligible for IDA assistance in fiscal 2009. To date, 27 countries have graduated from IDA. Some IDA recipients, most recently China and the Arab Republic of Egypt, have now become IDA donors. The allocation of IDA's resources is determined primarily by each recipient's rating in the annual Country Policy and Institutional Assessments. In the case of countries that are eligible for both IDA and IBRD funds, IDA allocations must also take into account those countries' creditworthiness for and access to other sources of funds.
IDA supports countries' efforts to boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living conditions of the poor. In its operational work, it faces a full spectrum of country conditions, including postconflict reconstruction, economic transition, vulnerability, and rapid and sustained growth. While continuing to support all low-income countries, IDA is expected to direct half of its financial assistance in the three-year period covered by the 15th Replenishment of IDA (IDA15) to Africa, subject to performance. Significant assistance will also be directed to the poorest countries in South and East Asia.
IDA Commitments
IDA commitments in fiscal 2009 reached $14 billion (figure 3.4). This funding, including $11.0 billion in credits, $2.6 billion in grants, and $0.4 billion in guarantees, supported 176 operations. The largest share of IDA resources was committed to Africa, which received $7.9 billion, or 56 percent of total IDA commitments. South Asia ($4.1 billion) and East
Asia and Pacific ($1.2 billion) also received large shares of total funding. Nigeria and Pakistan were the largest single recipients of funding.
IDA is one of the major sources of financing for infrastructure, including the energy and mining; transportation; water, sanitation, and flood protection; and information and communication technology sectors. Combined, these sectors received $4.9 billion, 35 percent of the total IDA commitments. The largest commitments went to the public administration sector (including law and justice), as a single sector, which received $2.6 billion in financing (19 percent of the total). Significant support was also provided to the health and social services ($2.0 billion) and agriculture ($1.9 billion) sectors.
The themes receiving the most funding were rural development ($3.2 billion) and human development ($2.7 billion). Significant attention was also paid to financial and private sector development ($2.5 billion), public sector governance ($1.7 billion), and urban development ($1 billion). (Figures 3.5-3.7 summarize IDA lending for fiscal 2009, and figure 3.8 looks at IDA lending in relation to infrastructure.)
IDA Resources
IDA is financed largely by contributions from donor governments (figure 3.9). Additional financing includes transfers from IBRD's net income, grants from IFC, and borrowers' repayment of earlier IDA credits. Every three years, donor governments and representatives of borrower countries meet to discuss IDA's policies and priorities and to agree on the amount of new resources required to fund its lending program over the following three fiscal years. Historically, the major industrial nations have been the largest contributors to IDA, but donor nations also include developing countries and transition economies—some of them current IBRD borrowers and former IDA borrowers. Six new countries joined the donor community during the IDA15 negotiations: China, Cyprus, Egypt, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.
Fiscal 2009 was the first year of IDA15, which will fund IDA's commitments for fiscal years 2009-11. During this three-year period, concessional
financing commitments of $41.7 billion (equivalent to special drawing rights of 27.3 billion) will be made to IDA-eligible countries. Donors provided new financing pledges of an unprecedented $25.2 billion. These contributions were complemented by $16.5 billion of funding from prior pledges for financing the cost of debt relief; IDA's credit reflows and investment income; and internal financing from the Bank Group, which pledged to contribute $3.5 billion from IBRD net income and IFC retained earnings, more than twice the amount provided under IDA14.
Of the total IDA15 financial envelope, $9.1 billion comes from donor-financed compensation of credit reflows foregone due to IDA's provision of debt relief. This includes IDA's Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI)-related costs over the IDA15 disbursement period of $6.3 billion; IDA's Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative-related costs in IDA15 of $1.7 billion; and the financing of arrears clearance operations under IDA15 of $1.1 billion. These figures illustrate the increased dependence of IDA on donor financing due to debt-relief initiatives.
HIPC Initiative and MDRI
The World Bank provides debt relief to the poorest countries through the HIPC Initiative and the MDRI. To date, 35 of the 40 eligible countries have reached the HIPC Decision Point and qualified for HIPC Initiative assistance. Of those, 26 countries have reached the HIPC completion point and received debt relief under both the HIPC Initiative and the MDRI. The total cost to creditors of HIPC Initiative debt relief for all eligible countries is estimated at $74 billion in end-2008 net present value terms. For the 26 countries that have reached the HIPC Initiative completion point, Bank debt relief is expected to total approximately $26 billion in end-2008 net present value terms, of which $11 billion is being provided under the HIPC Initiative, and $15 billion under the MDRI.
MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Middle-income countries are home to nearly two-thirds of the world's poor, who face substantial development challenges. They must sustain the
growth that provides productive employment, while reducing poverty and inequality. They must manage macroeconomic risks stemming from volatile capital flows, contingent liabilities, financial markets, and pensions. They must build crisis management capability to deal with global threats. They must enhance their competitiveness, adopt clean energy, ensure environmental sustainability, and strengthen the institutional and governance structures that underpin viable market-based economies.
The ongoing financial crisis is increasing the need for Bank services for middle-income countries. IBRD is able to help these countries deal with these challenges. The financial crisis, which originated in the developed world, threatens to disrupt middle-income countries' strong growth performance and risks considerably slowing efforts to reduce poverty. The effect of the crisis is twofold: first, middle-income countries are facing difficult credit-market conditions, with limited access to capital markets, shorter maturity access, and higher interest rate spreads; and second, the growing worldwide downturn has led to collapsing growth; escalating unemployment; and declining trade, commodity prices, tourism, remittances, and investment. The Bank is responding vigorously through analytical work and lending, with crisis response and precautionary elements focused on capital market access, social safety nets, and sustaining infrastructure expenditures.
The Role of IBRD
IBRD is a triple-A-rated financial institution with some unusual characteristics. Its shareholders and clients are sovereign governments, each of which has a voice in setting IBRD's policies. As a global development cooperative, IBRD's purpose is to work with its members to achieve equitable and sustainable growth in their economies and find solutions to regional and global problems in economic development and environmental
sustainability, all with a view to reducing poverty and improving standards of living. IBRD pursues these goals primarily by providing financing, risk management products, and other financial services, along with access to experts and knowledge in development-related disciplines, so that borrowing members can pool, administer, and prioritize resources they dedicate to development-related objectives.
IBRD Financial Services
New lending commitments by IBRD increased significantly in fiscal 2009, amounting to $32.9 billion for 126 operations, exceeding the historically high levels of commitments during the Asian financial crisis a decade ago, which peaked at $22 billion during fiscal 1999. Policy-based lending represented 47 percent of total lending, up from 29 percent in fiscal 2008.
Latin America and the Caribbean received the highest share of IBRD's new lending commitments, with $ 13.8 billion (42 percent of total IBRD commitments), followed by Europe and Central Asia, which received $9 billion (27 percent) in funding, and East Asia and Pacific, which received $6.9 billion (21 percent). Lending was less concentrated than in fiscal 2008. Whereas the largest five countries received roughly 53 percent of total lending in fiscal 2008, five countries, including Brazil, China, Indonesia, Mexico, and Poland received combined commitments of 49 percent of total IBRD lending in fiscal 2009.
Among sectors, law and justice and public administration received the highest volume of IBRD lending ($6.9 billion), followed by the transportation sector (4.9 billion) and the health and other social services sector (4.3 billion). The thematic composition of lending was led by financial and private sector development (7.2 billion), followed by social protection and risk management (4.5 billion) and environment and natural resources management (4.5 billion).
Figures 3.10-3.12 show IBRD lending by region, theme, and sector. Development policy-based lending commitments are shown on the accompanying CD-ROM.
IBRD offers risk management products for clients to manage risks related to currency, interest rate, commodity prices, and natural disasters. In fiscal 2009, it executed USDeq (U.S. dollar equivalent) 12.8 billion hedging transactions on behalf of clients. This included interest rate hedges of USDeq 11.7 billion, and currency hedges of USDeq 1.1 billion (all local currency conversions). In addition, Treasury executed USDeq 0.6 billion for the International Finance Facility for Immunization and USDeq 0.5 billion for the Advance Market Commitment.
IBRD Resources
IBRD obtains most of its funds by selling bonds in international capital markets. In fiscal 2009, it raised $44.3 billion at medium- to long-term maturities. Debt securities, with a wide range of maturities and structures, were issued in 19 currencies. IBRD was able to borrow these high volumes on very favorable terms despite difficult market conditions because of its standing in the capital markets and its financial strength. IBRD's strength is based on its prudent financial policies and practices, which help maintain its triple-A credit ratings. As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities.
IBRD's operating income was $572 million in fiscal 2009, down from $2,271 million in fiscal 2008, as a result of the global financial and economic turmoil. This lower operating income was due primarily to lower net interest income on loans and a provisioning charge for losses on loans and guarantees compared to a release in fiscal 2008. The equity duration extension program implemented in late fiscal 2008 largely insulated IBRD's operating income from the significant downswings in interest rates.
IBRD retained $36 million in its long-term income portfolio reserve, $25 million in its pension reserve, and $11 million in its restricted retained earnings account from its fiscal 2009 net income. In August 2009, the Executive Directors recommended that the Board of Governors approve a transfer of $500 million to IDA from the fiscal year 2009 net income and an additional transfer of $283.3 million to IDA from the surplus account. IBRD maintained adequate liquidity to ensure its ability to meet its obligations. As of June 30,
2009,	it held about $38.2 billion in liquid assets. IBRD's outstanding borrowings from capital markets as of that date were about $103.6 billion (net of swaps) (figure 3.13). Total disbursed and outstanding loans were $105.7 billion.
Consistent with IBRD's development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. Risks related to interest and exchange rates are minimized. One summary measure of the Bank's risk profile is the equity-to-loans ratio, which is closely managed in line with the Bank's financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 34.5 percent as of June 30, 2009 (figure 3.14).
THE ROLE OF TRUST FUNDS
The Bank Group is involved in a broad range of strategic partnerships in which it collaborates with one or more entities to achieve common development objectives. These partnerships augment the Bank's own development initiatives and facilitate harmonization of efforts by donors, recipient countries, and other stakeholders at the global, regional, and country levels.
To support these partnerships, the Bank establishes trust funds, to which donors contribute. Donors include sovereign agencies from many Bank member countries, as well as nonsovereign agencies, such as multilaterals, private sector institutions, foundations, and nongovernmental organizations. The Bank also contributes some of its own surplus resources to selected trust funds.
Trust funds have become an increasingly important vehicle for channeling concessional finance. As of June 30, 2009, the Bank had an active portfolio of 1,046 trust funds representing $72 billion worth of donor funding commitments backed by signed legal agreements. About 64 percent of the total was for financial intermediary funds, and the remaining 36 percent was for the rest of the portfolio.
Between fiscal 2004 and 2009, annual disbursements rose from $3.27 billion to $6.92 billion. The stock of trust fund assets held by the Bank, representing undisbursed, paid-in donor contributions, more than tripled between fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2009, from $8.59 billion to $28.48 billion. These consisted of $19.86 billion in cash and $8.62 billion in promissory notes.
During fiscal 2009, donors committed an additional $10.87 billion to trust funds, up slightly from the $10 billion posted in fiscal 2008 (cash-based donor contributions are shown in table 3.2). Of the new commitments, $171 million was directed toward addressing the global food crisis response.
Trust fund disbursements in fiscal 2009 of $6.92 billion represent a 3 percent increase over fiscal 2008, reflecting strong growth in the recipient-executed trust fund portfolio. About $141 million of these disbursements supported initiatives to mitigate the effects of the global food crisis.
The largest share of trust fund disbursements continued to go to Africa (32 percent), followed by South Asia (16 percent) and East Asia and Pacific (14 percent). The health and other social services sector received 42 percent of disbursements, followed by public administration and law (15 percent) and agriculture (8 percent).
NONLENDING ACTIVITIES Country Assistance Strategies
A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) guides Bank Group activities within a borrowing member country. Starting with a country's vision of its development goals, a CAS is prepared in close cooperation with the government and in consultation with civil society organizations, development partners, and other stakeholders. It assesses the country's
development challenges and priorities and lays out a program of lending and nonlending activities to support the country's development efforts.
During fiscal 2009, the Bank prepared 39 CAS products, including 22 CASs, 10 CAS Progress Reports, and 7 Interim Strategy Notes. Of these, 24 were prepared jointly with IFC, and several were prepared collaboratively with other donors.
Sector Strategy Development
Fiscal 2009 saw the delivery of six sector strategy documents. The Strategic Framework on Development and Climate Change, prepared at the request of the Development Committee, will guide and support the operational response of the Bank Group to the new development challenges posed by global climate change. The Executive Directors considered four implementation progress reports, including reports on the governance and anticorruption strategy; the strategy for health, nutrition, and population; a second update of the Bank Group's gender action plan; and a midcycle update on private sector development.
An interim progress report on the financial sector strategy was also submitted to the Executive Directors in fiscal 2009.
Economic and Sector Work and Nonlending Technical Assistance
Economic and sector work (ESW) and nonlending technical assistance (TA) activities constitute the bulk of the Bank's knowledge services. The Bank delivered 437 ESW and 545 TA activities in fiscal 2009. In terms of sectoral coverage, law and justice and public administration, followed by finance, represented the main focus of ESW and TA activities. These activities, which increasingly emphasize country ownership, participatory processes, partnerships, and capacity building, often provide the basis for project design and country programming.
Research and Development
In fiscal 2009, the Bank's research group addressed vital development issues within its core research programs on macroeconomics and growth; trade and integration; finance and the private sector; poverty and inequality; human development and public services; agriculture and rural development; and environment and energy. Surveys show that outside researchers and the policy community use the group's research findings and data and software products to understand development issues and access key information and analytic capacity.
Research related to the crisis was understandably in high demand in fiscal 2009. New crisis research concerned international capital flows; trade and migration responses; social spending responses; and impacts on poverty and human development. The group's research has identified both successes and failures in policy responses to past crises, and has pointed to concrete actions that developing countries can take to address the current crisis, including protecting their poor, without damaging long-term development prospects.
The research group's country-specific research spanned 45 developing countries, as well as cross-country comparative work. This year's results were documented in 21 books, 161 journal articles, 69 book chapters, and more than 176 working papers. New and updated data sets in fiscal 2009
helped users monitor poverty, evaluate public programs, assess trade and financial regulations, and measure governance.
In August 2008, Bank researchers released new estimates of global poverty—the first reevaluation of the international poverty line since 1990. These estimates do not change the rates of poverty reduction achieved, but they do indicate that the level of global poverty is higher and the incidence of poverty reaches farther into middle-income countries than previous estimates suggested.
The Bank revised its poverty estimates based on a recalibrated international poverty line of $1.25 a day in 2005 prices. Based on this metric, about 1.4 billion people in the developing world (one in four) were living in extreme poverty in 2005, down from 1.9 billion people (one in two) in 1981.
World Bank Institute
The World Bank Institute (WBI) facilitates learning, knowledge exchanges, and practitioner-generated innovations. It identifies countries' capacity needs and develops learning activities to address them.
Rapidly growing demand for global knowledge and learning customized to local needs prompted WBI to increase its partnerships with regional and national institutions of learning in fiscal 2009. It is also building new programs on fragile and conflict-affected states, the global economic crisis, governance, and climate change, as well as selected sectoral priorities, such as health systems, public-private partnerships in infrastructure, and sustainable urban development.
In response to the financial and economic crises, WBI launched a series of just-in-time global dialogues for groups of countries facing similar policy challenges. Connected by videoconferencing through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN), officials from middle-and low-income countries have been exchanging their experiences with the current and past crises. (See http://www.gdln.org.)
WBI also manages Carbon Finance Assist, a multidonor trust fund that helps developing countries participate more effectively in the global carbon market. During fiscal 2009, it delivered 24 carbon finance training programs in 20 countries for some 3,000 professionals and began developing e-learning programs on various aspects of carbon finance. It organized regional carbon forums in Africa, Central Asia, Latin America, and South Asia; supported the publication of State and Trends of the Carbon Market2009; and facilitated studies on the potential for carbon mitigation in the energy and cement sectors in Africa.
In fiscal 2009, the Development Marketplace, a Bank-sponsored global competition to identify innovative ways of fighting poverty and promoting sustainable development, became part of WBI's innovation function. Cosponsored by the Global Environment Facility, the 2009 competition focuses on climate adaptation, coinciding with the theme of the World Development Report 2010: Development and Climate Change. Finalists, whose projects could receive up to $200,000 in grant funding for implementation over two years, will be recognized at an event in Washington, DC, on November 3-5, 2009.
Cofinancing
Cofinancing is any arrangement under which funds from the Bank are associated with funds provided by sources outside the recipient country for a specific lending operation. In fiscal 2009, 65 Bank projects leveraged $5.5 billion in cofinancing. Major cofinanciers were the African Development Bank ($839 million) and the U.K. Department for International Development ($417 million). The three regions that benefited the most were Africa ($2,677 million), the Middle East and North Africa ($1,561 million), and South Asia ($458 million). Energy and mining, education, and social protection sector projects received $1,846 million, $1,045 million, and $816 million, respectively. Bilateral agencies contributed $1.5 billion in cofinancing.
WORKING WITH PARTNERS
The Bank can help build bridges in what must be a multifaceted, coordinated, flexible, and fast response to the global economic crisis. The challenge created tremendous impetus for collaboration
between the Bank and its partner organizations, including the private sector and the reenergized G-20. Bank and IMF staff participated in all four of the G-20 finance ministers' working groups on reform regarding aspects of the international financial, regulatory, and institutional architecture.
The United Nations-World Bank Partnership Framework
This principles-based document formally recognizes the critical and complementary roles of both institutions in supporting early and sustainable recovery during and after crises. It lays the foundation for a productive partnership that will anchor a common operational platform for coordinated responses.
The statement on crisis and postcrisis situations is being operationalized in two ways. An operational note establishes concrete operational commitments by the two institutions to strengthen their collaboration, particularly with regard to postcrisis needs assessment and multidonor trust funds. A fiduciary principles accord signed by the Bank and 11 United Nations agencies facilitates the timely transfer of funds by allowing signatory organizations to use their own policies and procedures when executing trust funds administered by other signatories. The development of these documents laid the foundation for a related agreement recently signed by the United Nations Development Group, the World Bank, and the European Commission that commits the three organizations to collaboration in assessing, planning, and mobilizing support for recovery.
The Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative
The Stolen Asset Recovery (StAR) initiative is a partnership between the Bank and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. StAR's objective is to deter asset theft and facilitate the recovery of assets stolen through acts of corruption. StAR emphasizes that developed and developing countries share a joint responsibility for tackling corruption and that international collaboration and collective action are needed to facilitate asset recovery and prevent asset theft. The United Nations Convention against Corruption provides a framework for this collaboration and a standard against which to measure progress.
Recent endorsements of the StAR through the G-20 process and agreements to facilitate asset recovery in the context of the Accra Agenda for Action have demonstrated growing international commitment to this agenda. StAR supports these international efforts through the development of innovative approaches to asset recovery, promotion of policy reforms, capacity building in partner countries, facilitation of networks of practitioners, and provision of support to countries' asset recovery initiatives. Following the recommendations of the report by the G-20 Working Group on Reinforcing International Cooperation and Promoting Integrity in Financial Markets, issued at the London Summit in April 2009, StAR will review and propose mechanisms to strengthen international cooperation around asset recovery and the enforcement of standards related to the identification of beneficial ownership and monitoring of politically exposed persons. StAR is currently undertaking analytical work to develop policy recommendations and tools in each of
these areas. StAR's country assistance is geared to helping national authorities make informed decisions about their asset recovery programs. Acting as an honest broker, StAR also helps developing countries forge contacts and facilitates collaboration with financial centers.
GLOBAL POLL RESULTS:
THE ROLE OF THE BANK GOING FORWARD
In the spring of 2008, the Bank Group commissioned the Gallup Organization to conduct a survey of opinion leaders around the world to examine the views of key stakeholders of international development and the role the Bank should play within this context. It is the only international financial institution that has requested a benchmark study of opinion leaders of this breadth, depth, and number of interviewees: more than 2,600 in 42 countries (both developing and industrialized). The randomly selected respondents came from a range of constituency groups, including government (national, state, and local), media, private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and civil society organizations. These groups generally have highly informed opinions about the Bank and the ability to influence opinion in their countries.
The research revealed that respondents believe the Bank Group's top priority (in surveyed countries) should be poverty reduction, according to about half of the stakeholders in East Asia and Pacific (52 percent), Latin America and the Caribbean (47 percent), and South Asia (46 percent), as well as in the industrialized countries polled (47 percent). There was a greater diversity of opinions in Europe and Central Asia, the Middle East and North Africa, and Africa. A plurality in Africa (39 percent) and Europe and Central Asia (26 percent) believes the Bank should focus its efforts on infrastructure development (nearly the same as the percentage that believes the Bank should focus on poverty), whereas in the Middle East and North Africa countries, respondents (33 percent) believe that emphasis should be placed on economic growth and strengthening economies.
A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
A true global community, Bank staff is made up of people representing 165 countries. The work of IBRD and IDA is performed by about 9,000 staff working in Washington, DC, and in almost 120 country offices worldwide. Today, 37 percent of Bank staff work in country offices, where an increased presence in the field helps the Bank better understand, work more effectively with, and provide more timely service to its partners in client countries.
Staff diversity is critical to the World Bank's organizational effectiveness, enriching its talent base, reflecting its global membership, and bringing a wide range of perspectives to bear on its poverty reduction work. Nationals of developing countries account for 62 percent of all staff and 47 percent of management and senior technical positions. Women currently account for 52 percent of all staff and 35 percent of management and senior technical positions. The Bank's goal is to achieve gender parity in management by the end of 2012. Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean nationals represent 17 percent of all staff and
11 percent of management and senior technical positions. The Bank's 27 senior managers include 13 developing-country nationals, nine women, and three Sub-Saharan African nationals.
In 2007, the Bank Group adopted a five-year Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for its staff, emphasizing four key themes—leadership accountability; more inclusive staffing processes; new learning to promote behavior change; and fresh metrics that focus on developing-country nationals, gender, and Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean nationals. The Bank continues to deploy a comprehensive global diversity and inclusion agenda supportive of staff with disabilities and of any sexual orientation, in country offices and in Washington, DC. Future policy-guiding metrics and research will focus on language, education, and transferrable skill sets, to achieve more sustainable diversity and promote more inclusive practices among the workforce.
The Bank's decentralization initiative is intended to increase its responsiveness to clients and to better integrate global and country knowledge. The experience in recent years suggests that the Bank has become a more responsive and effective institution since this process was started slightly more than a decade ago. There continues to be a call for the Bank, most recently as part of the IDA15 replenishment, to decentralize further, particularly in Africa and in fragile and conflict-affected countries. As a result, the move to deploy more resources from headquarters into the field has continued during
2009.	The cost of maintaining a field presence, however, continues to place significant pressure on the annual budget. The major drivers of this increase in many countries have been higher-than-expected salary growth and office expenses and, in some countries, security costs. These costs have been exacerbated by the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against a number of currencies worldwide. The Bank is developing a strategy to guide future decentralization efforts and to adapt its human resource policies and support services to facilitate the decentralization process.
Staff Knowledge and Learning
Knowledge and learning are key to the Bank Group's ability to achieve its mission, and a menu of learning activities and knowledge products is available to staff so that they can continuously sharpen their skills and expertise to deliver on the Bank's mission. Options include activities to foster technical expertise, expand cultural awareness, and strengthen interpersonal and client engagement skills. Learning with and from partners is an increasingly critical stepping stone for teams in producing
results. The Bank is expanding its use of technology and innovative methods to reach country offices and help these teams harness global expertise in the search for local solutions.
Community Outreach
As the third-largest employer in Washington, DC, the Bank Group recognizes the need for individual and corporate responsibility where its staff lives and works. In keeping with the Bank's poverty reduction mission, the Community Outreach Program seeks to improve the lives of the institution's neighbors in the greater metropolitan area. The program encourages staff volunteerism, administers a workplace giving program, manages an annual high school summer internship program, and partners with area groups to strengthen local communities. In fiscal
2009,	the annual World Bank Community Connections compaign raised a record $1.25 million-plus for over 250 locally based charities. More staff pledged to the campaign than ever before—3,675 or 41 percent of all headquarters staff. The World Bank Group, in recognition of the harsh economic climate, made a one-time-only increase in the corporate match to 200 percent, which brought the total to more than $4 million in charitable donations.
Staff Recognition
Contributions of staff are recognized in several forms. Since 1996, the Staff Association has presented annual Good Manager Awards to honor individuals who demonstrate the highest qualities of leadership and management. In March 2009, for the sixth year in a row, Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Awards were presented to individuals and teams recognized by their peers for demonstrating respect for others, leveraging the value of differences, and promoting workforce inclusion in delivering business results.
World Bank Staff
•	56	percent work in the six regional vice presidencies.
•	15	percent work in the "anchor units" of the professional networks
and other operational units.
•	29	percent work in finance, administrative, and corporate units.
•	74	percent of staff are affiliated with one of the professional
networks within the Bank.
•	88 percent of Country Directors and Country Managers and 37 percent of staff are now based in country offices, and 31 percent of staff are hired locally by country offices.


1.	OVERVIEW
Structure and Operations
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization established in 1945 and is owned by its member countries. IBRD's main goals are promoting sustainable economic development and reducing poverty in its developing member countries. It pursues these goals primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for projects and for programs for economic reform. IBRD's ability to intermediate funds from international capital markets for lending to its developing member countries is an important element in achieving its development goals. IBRD's financial objective is not to maximize profit, but to earn adequate net income to ensure its financial strength and to sustain its development activities. Box 1 presents selected financial data for the last five fiscal years.
The financial strength of IBRD is based on the support it receives from its shareholders and on its financial policies and practices. Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members and in the record of its borrowing members in meeting their debt-service obligations to it. IBRD's financial policies and practices have led it to build reserves, to diversify its funding sources, to hold a large portfolio of liquid investments, and to limit a variety of risks, including credit, market and liquidity risks.
IBRD's principal assets are its loans to borrowing member countries. During FY 2009, due to higher projected debt funding costs, IBRD increased the spread over LIBOR on all new IBRD Flexible Loans (IFL) with a fixed spread and also introduced differential pricing depending on the average maturity of loans with fixed spread terms. (see Section 3, Development Activities - Contractual Terms of Loans including Tables 5 and 6 for loan pricing details).
To raise funds, IBRD issues debt securities in a variety of currencies to both institutional and retail investors. Proceeds from the debt issuance, together with IBRD's equity, are used to fund its lending and investment activities, as well as general operations.
IBRD holds its assets and liabilities primarily in U.S. dollars, euro and Japanese yen. IBRD mitigates its exposure to exchange rate risks by matching the currencies of its equity with those of its assets. However, the reported levels of its assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the financial statements are affected by exchange rate movements in all the currencies in which IBRD transacts compared to IBRD's reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Since IBRD matches the currencies of its equity with those
of its loans, the fluctuations captured in the cumulative translation adjustment for the purposes of financial statement reporting do not significantly impact IBRD's risk-bearing capacity.
Economic Environment
FY 2009 was characterized by turmoil in the global financial markets and the related credit crisis. The impact of these developments on IBRD’s risk bearing capacity and operations is discussed below:
Capital Adequacy: As of June 30, 2009, IBRD’s capital adequacy position remained strong in the face of the on-going financial markets turmoil, as indicated by the equity-to-loans ratio1 (see Table 11), which remained above the target risk coverage range of 23 to 27 percent under the Strategic Capital Adequacy Framework. In addition, IBRD remains well-capitalized and supported by adequate liquidity levels which enabled it to meet increased lending requirements in FY 2009.
Lending Operations: IBRD has seen a significant increase in its lending in FY 2009, as reflected in the increase in commitments and net disbursements of $19,443 million and $10,473 million, respectively, compared to FY 2008. The substantial increase in the commitments was largely driven by an increase in demand for IBRD’s loans as a result of the current financial crisis. The majority of the increase in commitments was to borrowing countries in the Latin America and Caribbean region and the Europe and Central Asia region.
Investment Activities: IBRD’s liquid asset portfolio experienced positive returns for the year. Included in these returns where net mark-to-market losses of 24 basis points due to the market conditions experienced in FY 2009. Should conditions worsen, IBRD could experience lower investment returns, resulting in a reduction in its operating income in future periods. Given the deterioration in equity markets globally, IBRD’s pension and other postretirement benefits assets have experienced a lower return than expected, resulting in higher post employment benefits costs in FY 2010 and beyond.
Net Loan Income: Due to the lower short-term interest rate environment, IBRD has experienced a decrease in loan income, net of funding costs, as compared to FY 2008. In the event of a sustained lower short-term interest rate environment, IBRD could experience lower operating income in future periods.
1	The equity-to-loans ratio refers to the equity-to-loans, guarantees and long-term investment asset ratio.
included in the fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net.
In the context of assessing changes in IBRD's operating environment, it is management's practice to recommend each year the allocation of net income to augment reserves, waivers of loan charges to benefit eligible borrowers, and allocation of net income to support developmental activities.
On July 10, 2009, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved a $55 million transfer from Surplus for the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank.
On August 5, 2009, the Executive Directors approved the following allocations from FY 2009 net income: $36 million to the Long-Term Income Portfolio adjustment account, $25 million to the Pension Reserve, and $11 million to the restricted retained earnings. In addition, the Executive Directors recommended to IBRD’s Board of Governors the transfer of $783.3 million to International Development Association (IDA) of which $500 million from FY 2009 unallocated net income and $283.3 million from Surplus. The Executive Directors also approved waivers of loan charges for FY 2010 for all eligible borrowers with eligible loans.
2.	BASIS OF REPORTING
Financial Statement Reporting
IBRD prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), referred to in this document as the “reported basis”.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ reported figures have been made to conform with the current years’ presentation.
Accounting Developments
Effective July 1, 2008, utilizing an election available under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159), IBRD fair values all of the debt instruments in its borrowings portfolio. As a result of this election, all of the instruments in the investments, borrowings and asset/liability management portfolios are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value reported in earnings. However, IBRD still reports all of its loans at amortized cost (except for loans with embedded derivatives2 which are reported at fair value). In conjunction with this change, IBRD also implemented Statement of Financial Accounting
2	In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, hybrid financial instruments, with embedded derivatives that otherwise would require bifurcation, can be carried at fair value.
Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157).
The combined effect of the adoption of FAS 157 and FAS 159 was to reduce opening retained earnings as of July 1, 2008, by $2,566 million. (Refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements, Note O - Fair Value of Financial Instruments.)
Management Reporting
IBRD is a financial intermediary, borrowing funds in international capital markets for lending to its member countries. IBRD's funding operations are designed to meet a major organizational objective of providing low cost funds to borrowing members.
In implementing its risk management and funding strategies, IBRD makes extensive use of derivatives.
Because of the asymmetry created in the financial statements from fair valuing the derivatives and borrowings portfolio, while carrying the corresponding loans at amortized cost less a loan loss provision, management believes that reported net income does not capture the true economic income of IBRD. Therefore, for management reporting purposes, IBRD uses fair value financial statements, which present the effect of all financial assets and liabilities including the loans portfolio at fair value. Table 1 presents all major financial asset and liability portfolios.
In prior years the management reporting basis was referred to as “current value”. However, effective July 1, 2008, IBRD modified its valuation of the loans portfolio to be consistent with FAS 157. IBRD’s loans portfolio valuation model was enhanced to incorporate CDS spreads for each borrower. Recovery levels were modified to incorporate IBRD’s expected recovery rates. As a result, as of July 1, 2008, the fair value basis of reporting for the loans portfolio was $1,451 million lower than the amount reported at June 30, 2008 on a current value basis. There were no other differences between the fair value and current value reporting bases as of that date.
The current market environment has seen large volatility in CDS spreads on sovereign debt. The CDS spreads provides a market indicator of the fair value of the portfolio at a point in time; however, the associated volatility does not provide a good basis for making income allocation decisions, which are based on a longer term view of the adequacy of IBRD’s risk bearing capacity.
Income allocation and distribution decisions are based on reported income, excluding the impact of the fair value adjustments associated with
financial instruments (other than trading investments measured at fair value), Board of Governors-Approved Transfers, temporarily restricted income due to externally financed outputs and adjustments to the pension reserve. Additionally, when making decisions on income allocation and distribution, management monitors the fair value balance sheet, the results from the stress test, and considers projections of the equity-to-loans ratio as indicators of IBRD’s financial health within an overall Strategic Capital Adequacy Framework.
Fair Value Basis
The Condensed Fair Value Balance Sheets in Table 1 present IBRD's estimates of the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities, taking into account interest rate, currency and credit risks. The current year's Condensed Fair Value Balance Sheet is presented with a reconciliation to the reported basis. The prior year's Condensed Fair Value Balance Sheet is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18 in Section 10. The prior year's Condensed Fair Value Statement of Income is presented, with reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19 in Section 10.
Fair Value Balance Sheets
Loans Portfolio
All of IBRD's loans are made to, or guaranteed by, countries that are members of IBRD. In addition, IBRD may also make loans to IFC, an affiliated organization, without any guarantee. IBRD does not currently sell its loans, nor does management believe there is a market for loans comparable to those made by IBRD.
At June 30, 2009, the fair value of loans, as shown in Table 1, was $1,739 million lower than the reported basis, reflecting the incremental effects on fair value of incorporating prevailing CDS spreads and interest rates over the reported basis where the outstanding balance is reduced by the loan loss provisioning.
Investments Portfolio
For the investments portfolio, no additional fair value adjustment is necessary, since the investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value under both the reported and fair value bases.
Borrowings Portfolio
For the borrowings portfolio, except for the transition adjustment reflecting the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133) on July 1, 2000, no additional adjustment is necessary, since the debt instruments and associated derivatives held in IBRD’s borrowings portfolio are carried and reported at fair value under both the reported and fair value bases.
Fair Value Statements of Income
In FY 2009, net loss on a Fair Value basis was $225 million, as compared to FY 2008 net income of $1,135 million. The main factors contributing to the decrease in net income on a fair value basis are discussed below.
Income from Loans
Income from loans decreased by $1,662 million in FY 2009 compared to FY 2008. This was primarily due to a decline in the short-term interest rates in FY 2009, particularly U.S. dollar (see Figure 10), as well as the impact of the positive developments in the nonaccrual loan portfolio in FY 2008.
Income from Investments
Income from investments decreased by $463 million in FY 2009 compared to FY 2008, due to lower interest income consistent with the interest rate environment (see Figure 10). IBRD primarily holds short-term U.S. dollar fixed income investments and other assets hedged into U.S. dollars with an average duration of less than three months.
Borrowing expenses decreased by $1,278 million in FY 2009 compared to FY 2008 primarily due to the decrease in the short-term interest rates, particularly the U.S. dollar (see Figure 10). With approximately two-thirds of borrowings based on short-term U.S. dollar interest rates, the decrease in U.S. dollar six-month LIBOR in FY 2009 resulted in lower borrowing costs.
Fair Value Adjustment on Non-Trading Portfolios, net
The fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net consists of the fair value adjustments on borrowings, loans with embedded derivatives, and derivatives other than those in the investments portfolio. The fair value adjustment on loans is reported on a separate line in the Condensed Fair Value Statement of Income.
During FY 2009, IBRD experienced net unrealized gains of $3,280 million primarily due to the following factors:
■	$ 1,687 million gains from the asset/liability management portfolio primarily due to gains from the interest rate swaps due to lower interest rates (see Figure 11 in Section 8) related to the equity duration extension strategy implemented in FY 2008; and
■	$1,624 million of gains on the borrowing portfolio reflecting the widening of IBRD’s credit spreads, partially offset by the effect of lower interest rates.
During FY 2008, the effect of fair value was a net unrealized loss of $443 million as a result of declining interest rates particularly in the U.S. dollar.
Fair Value Adjustments on Loans
The fair value adjustment on loans, including the reversal of reported basis provision on loan losses for FY 2009, was a charge of $1,454 million. This adjustment reflects changes in both interest rates and credit risk. The change in the fair value adjustment for loans was primarily driven by the widening of CDS spreads, partially offset by fair value gains due to the decline in interest rates. In contrast, the ‘current value’ adjustment in FY 2008 was a credit of $983 million primarily due to mark-to-market gains from the decrease in reference interest rates.
Changes to Other Comprehensive Income
Changes to other comprehensive income for FY 2009 were a reduction in income of $1,885, a decrease of $1,633 million from June 30, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to the negative currency translation adjustment of $1,080 million between the two periods. The negative currency translation adjustments in FY 2009 were due to the depreciation of the euro (10.59%), slightly offset by the appreciation of the Japanese yen (12.95%) against the U.S. dollar in FY 2009. Table 3 provides a summary of currency translation adjustments by portfolio. The loans portfolio contributed negative $1,657 million towards this decrease. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 18% and 2% of the total loans portfolio, and 92% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated loans at June 30, 2009. The borrowings portfolio accounted for positive $887 million. The euro and the Japanese yen accounted for approximately 15% and 2% of the total borrowing portfolio, and 92% of total non-U.S. dollar denominated borrowings at June 30, 2009.
In comparison, in FY 2008 the impact of exchange rate changes on IBRD’s net assets resulted in a positive currency translation adjustment was due to the appreciation of the euro (16.9%) and Japanese yen (13.6%) against the U.S. dollar.
Changes to other comprehensive income also consist of the transition adjustment upon adoption of FAS 133, and pension related items as prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit, Pension and Postretirement Plans.
3.	DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD offers loans, derivatives, and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also provides technical assistance, advisory and other services to support poverty reduction in these countries.
Loans
From its establishment through June 30, 2009, IBRD had approved loans, net of cancellations, totaling $422,435 million to borrowers in 135 countries. A summary of cumulative lending is presented in Table 4.
Table 4: Lending Status at June 30, 2009 and 2008
a.	Net of cancellations
b.	Multicurrency pool loan repayments are included at exchange rates in effect on the date of original disbursement. All other amounts are based on U.S. dollar equivalents at the time of repayment by borrowers.
At June 30, 2009, the total volume of outstanding loans was $105,698 million, $6,648 million higher than the $99,050 million of outstanding loans at June 30, 2008. This increase was primarily due to positive net disbursements of $8,344 million, partially offset by negative currency translation adjustment of $1,689 million owing to the depreciation of the euro against the U.S. dollar in FY 2009. Undisbursed balances at June 30, 2009 totaled $51,125 million, reflecting an increase of $12,949 million from June 30, 2008.
During FY 2009, new loans, guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities to member countries were $32,911 million ($13,468 million in FY 2008). This significant increase in demand was driven by the global financial turmoil.
Figure 1: Commitments including Guarantee Facilities by Region
During the five year period from FY 2005 to FY 2009, Latin America and the Caribbean region accounted for the largest share of commitments.
Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement (the Articles), as applied, the total amount outstanding of direct loans made by IBRD, including participation in loans and callable guarantees may not exceed the statutory lending limit. At June 30, 2009, outstanding loans and callable guarantees totaled $105,741 million, equal to 49% of the statutory lending limit of $217,856 million at June 30, 2009.
IBRD's lending operations have conformed generally to five principles derived from its Articles. These principles, taken together, seek to ensure that IBRD loans are made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high priority, and that funds lent are utilized as intended. The five principles are described in Box 2. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Lending Cycle
The process of identifying and appraising a project, and approving and disbursing a loan, often extends over several years. However, on numerous occasions IBRD has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations such as natural disasters.
Generally, the appraisal of projects is carried out by IBRD's operational staff (economists, engineers, financial analysts, and other sector and country specialists). With certain exceptions3, each loan must be approved by IBRD's Executive Directors.
Loan disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the loan agreement. During implementation of IBRD-supported operations, experienced IBRD staff review progress, monitor compliance with IBRD policies and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. The Independent Evaluation Group, an IBRD unit whose director reports to the Executive Directors rather than to the President, evaluates the extent to which operations have met their major objectives.
3	For Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), the Board approves all first-phase APLs and delegates to Management the approval of subsequent phases subject to agreed procedures. Learning and Innovation Loans are loans of $5 million or less approved by Management.
Box 2: Lending Operations Principles_________________________________________________________________________________________
(i)	IBRD makes loans to governments, governmental authorities or private enterprises in the territories of member countries. A loan that is not made directly to the member in whose territories the project is located must be guaranteed as to principal, interest and other charges by the member or its central bank or a comparable agency of the member acceptable to IBRD. A guarantee by the member itself has been obtained in all such cases to date.
(ii)	IBRD's loans are designed to promote the use of resources for productive purposes in its member countries. Investment projects financed by IBRD loans are required to meet IBRD's standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness. Specific provisions apply to development policy lending financed by IBRD loans, including the treatment of the macroeconomic framework, poverty and social impact, environment, forests and other natural resources.
(iii)	In making loans, IBRD must act prudently and pay due regard to the prospects of repayment. Decisions to make loans are based upon, among other things, studies by IBRD of a member country's economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)	IBRD must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member's overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IBRD, are reasonable for the borrower. However, this does not preclude lending to members who may have access to international credit markets. It is the intention of IBRD to promote private investment, not to compete with it.
(v)	The use of loan proceeds is supervised. IBRD makes arrangements intended to ensure that funds loaned are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IBRD's satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of loans are made in conformity with the applicable lending agreements and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency. In addition, under pilot programs approved by the Executive Directors, IBRD considers the use of borrower country procurement, and environmental and social safeguard systems in selected operations where these systems are assessed by IBRD as being equivalent to IBRD's systems and where the borrower's policies and procedures, implementation practices, track record, fiduciary and safeguard risks and capacity are considered acceptable to IBRD.
Lending Instruments
IBRD lending generally falls into one of two categories: investment or development policy lending (previously referred to as adjustment lending). Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, development policy lending is generally provided in exchange for commitments by borrowers to implement social, structural, and institutional reforms. The majority of IBRD loans are for investment projects or programs. Figure 2 shows the percentage of IBRD loans approved for investment and development policy lending over the past seven years.
Figure 2: IBRD Lending Commitments
In FY 2009, new IBRD commitments to investment lending and development policy lending were 53% (FY 2008 - 71%) and 47% (FY 2008 - 29%), respectively. The increase in development policy lending in FY 2009 reflects the needs of borrowing countries for rapidly disbursing loans during the global financial turmoil.
Contractual Terms of Loans
Currently Available Loan Terms
As of June 30, 2009, IBRD offers the IBRD Flexible Loan (IFL), that allows borrowers to customize the repayment terms to meet their debt management or project needs and also includes options to manage the currency and/or interest rate risk over the life of the loan.
IFL has the following two basic types of loan terms: variable-spread terms and fixed-spread terms. Each type of loan may be denominated in the currency or currencies chosen by the borrower provided it is a currency in which IBRD can efficiently intermediate. Variable-spread terms have a variable spread over LIBOR that is adjusted every six months and fixed-spread terms have a fixed spread over LIBOR that is fixed for the life of the loan.
During FY 2009, IBRD increased the spread over LIBOR on all new IFLs with a fixed spread. The increase in the fixed spread reflects the extraordinary market conditions during the year, which resulted in an increase in IBRD’s projected cost of borrowing at longer maturities. In addition, IBRD for the first time introduced differential pricing dependent on the average maturity of loans. The projected funding spread to LIBOR is measured by the average repayment maturity of the loan at commitment. This enables IBRD to price the loan based on its projected funding cost for each maturity tier. The new pricing terms are summarized in Table 5.
Local Currency Financing
IBRD offers its borrowers products to convert or swap their IBRD loans into their domestic currencies to reduce their foreign currency exposure with respect to projects or programs that do not generate foreign currency revenues. These local currency loans carry fixed spread terms. The balance of such loans outstanding at June 30, 2009 was $1,172 million ($392 million - June 30, 2008).
IBRD also has a Local Currency Loan Facility Agreement with IFC, which is capped at $300 million, aimed at increasing the usability of local currency paid-in capital. Under this agreement,
IBRD lends local currencies of its member countries, funded from paid-in capital, to IFC. These currencies are subsequently used by IFC to finance projects in those member countries. Loan commitments under this facility are subject to consents of the respective IBRD member countries whose currency is involved. At June 30, 2009, loans outstanding equivalent to $50 million had been made under this facility.
Loans with a Deferred Drawdown Option
A Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) for use with IBRD development policy loans gives borrowers the option of deferring the loan's disbursement for up to three years, which may be renewed for an additional period of up to three years under the enhanced DDO for development loans. The catastrophic risk DDO may be renewed up to four times. The pricing of loans with a DDO comprises a front-end fee of 25 basis points, payable at effectiveness, and a contractual lending spread of 30 basis points over IBRD’s cost of funding. During the FY 2009, loans with DDO approved totaled $4,810 million (FY
2008	- $1,051 million). As of June 30, 2009, the outstanding amounts relating to loans with DDO totaled $1,773 million ($200 million - June 30, 2008).
Loan Terms for Previously Available Products
In previous years, IBRD offered loans with a variety of other contractual terms including: multicurrency pool loans and fixed-rate single currency loans.
Table 6 summarizes the contractual terms for variable-rate multicurrency and single-currency pool loans, fixed-rate single-currency loans, variable spread loans and fixed spread loans.
The currency composition of multicurrency pool loans is determined on the basis of a pool, which provides a currency composition that is the same for all loans in the pool. Pursuant to a policy established by the Executive Directors, and subject to their periodic review, at least 90% of the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the pool is in a fixed ratio of one U.S. dollar to 125 Japanese yen to one euro.
a.	Converted from variable-rate multicurrency pool loans.
b.	Cost base and spread are fixed on rate-fixing date for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months.
c.	Apply to loans signed between May 16, 2007 and February 12, 2008 under the new loan pricing terms. Those loans had a contractual
interest spread of 30 basis points, a front-end fee of 25 basis points and no commitment charge.
d.	Loans converted from variable-rate multi-currency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar pool loan to composite LIBOR + 100 basis points or fixed rate equivalent thereof are not eligible for interest waivers.
e.	The market risk premium compensates IBRD for additional funding risk associated with this product.
f.	The commitment charge is 85 basis points for the first four years and 75 basis points thereafter for loans signed on or before July 19, 2006, to compensate IBRD for additional funding and refinancing risk associated with this product. All loans which are signed on or after July 20, 2006 have a flat commitment charge of 75 basis points.
g.	Waivers of a portion of charges and interest are determined annually, see Table 7 for details.
The lending rate formulation for loans with single currency pool terms is the same as that for multicurrency pool loans. Single-currency pool loans are held in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and euro.
During FY 2006, IBRD's Executive Directors approved management's proposal to convert the variable rate multicurrency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar pool loan terms to composite LIBOR + 100 basis points or the fixed rate equivalent thereof (at the borrower's choice), subject to the borrowers consent to certain amendments to their loan agreements. This proposal was designed to adjust the applicable lending rates which were rising above the market rates in a manner not envisioned at the time that borrowers signed their loan agreements. These modified loan terms were offered to the borrowers from July 2006 through June 30, 2009 and applied on interest rate reset dates occurring on or after January 1, 2007. Loans that were amended to these new terms are not eligible for interest waivers. At June 30, 2009, 51% of the outstanding balance of variable rate multi-currency pool and variable rate U.S. dollar loans had been modified. This does not
include amounts relating to the conversions for borrowers' requests received as of that date but not executed.
Any fixed-rate multicurrency pool loans that were converted to single currency pools continued to carry their fixed rate.
Fixed-rate single currency loans carry lending rates fixed on semi-annual rate fixing dates for amounts disbursed during the preceding six months. For the interim period from the date each disbursement is made until its rate fixing date, interest accrues at the rate applicable to variable-spread loans.
Figure 3 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan portfolio by loan product. For more information, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
a.	Includes fixed-rate single currency loans for which the rate had not been fixed at fiscal year-end.
b.	Includes loans issued prior to 1980, loans to IFC, and currency pool loans and U.S. dollar single currency pool loans converted to fixed rate equivalent of composite LIBOR + 100 basis points.
c.	Includes loans with non-standard terms.
Waivers
Waivers of a portion of charges and interest owed by all eligible borrowers are determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1992. Waivers apply to loans signed before May 16, 2007 and those loans signed between May 16, 2007 and September 27,
2007,	for which the borrowers elected not to convert to the new terms effective September 27, 2007. Eligibility for the partial waiver of interest is limited to borrowers that have made full payments of principal, interest and other charges within 30 calendar days of the due dates during the preceding six months, on all their loans. Waivers of a portion of the commitment charge owed on the undisbursed portion of loans are also determined annually and have been in effect since FY 1990. All borrowers receive the commitment charge waiver on their eligible loans. Table 7 presents a breakdown of IBRD's loan charge waivers. Further details are included in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Derivatives
IBRD also offers derivative products to borrowers, IDA and non-affiliated organizations as part of financial intermediation services.
Borrowers: These products respond to borrowers' needs for access to better risk management tools. These derivative products include currency and interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps and collars. IBRD passes through its market cost of the
instrument to the borrower, and charges a transaction fee comparable to the conversion fee charged on the fixed-spread loans. These instruments may be executed either under a master derivatives agreement, which substantially conforms to industry standards, or under individually negotiated transactions.
Affiliated Organizations: IBRD executed a number of currency forward transactions with IDA. Concurrently, IBRD entered into offsetting transactions with market counterparties.
Non-affiliated Organizations: IBRD and the International Finance Facility for Immunisation (IFFIm), a AAA-rated non-affiliated organization, with whom IBRD has a master derivatives agreement and a treasury management contract, have entered into a number of currency swaps and interest rate swaps. Concurrently, IBRD entered into offsetting swap transactions with market counterparties. IBRD charges an intermediation fee for these interest rate swaps and currency swaps. IBRD has applied all its normal commercial credit risk policies to these transactions.
Further details on derivatives for clients are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees, and Note F-Derivatives Instruments.
Guarantees
IBRD offers guarantees on loans from private investors for projects in countries eligible to borrow from IBRD. These guarantees can also be offered on securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD loans, and in exceptional cases offered in countries only eligible to borrow from IDA. IBRD applies the same country creditworthiness and project evaluation criteria to guarantees as it applies to loans.
IBRD guarantees can be customized to suit varying country and project circumstances, and may be provided directly or via facilities. They can be targeted to mitigate specific risks or general risks relating to political, regulatory and government performance, which the private sector is not normally in a position to absorb or manage. Each guarantee requires the counter-guarantee of the member government.
IBRD generally provides the following types of guarantees:
Partial risk guarantees: These cover debt-service defaults on a loan that result from non-performance of government obligations.
Partial credit guarantees: These are used for public sector projects when there is a need to extend loan maturities and guarantee specified interest or
principal payments on loans to the government or its agencies.
Policy-based guarantees: When partial credit guarantees are used in support of agreed structural, institutional and social policies and reforms, they are considered policy-based guarantees. Eligibility for IBRD development policy lending is a necessary condition for eligibility for policy-based guarantees.
Enclave guarantees: These partial risk guarantees are offered in exceptional cases for loans for foreign-exchange generating projects in a member country usually eligible only for credits from IDA. Fees charged for enclave guarantees are higher than those charged for non-enclave guarantees. The commitment of enclave guarantees is limited to an aggregate guaranteed amount of $300 million. As of June 30, 2009 commitments made under enclave guarantees were $30 million.
Other Instruments: As discussed in Other Activities, IBRD has also committed to pay shortfalls associated with the Advance Market Commitment for Vaccines against Pneumococcal Diseases.
IBRD's exposure at June 30, 2009 on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is detailed in Table 8. For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Table 8: Guarantee Exposure
In millions of U.S. dollars______________________________
FY 2009 FY 2008 FY 2007 Partial risk a	$233	$274	$270
Partial credit	122	444	538
Policy based	50	49	79
Other Instruments	1,256_________-__________
Total	$1,661	$767	$887
a.	Includes enclave guarantees totaling $16.2 million.
Grants
IBRD also supports development activities by making grants to various recipients through the Development Grant Facility and through Board of Governors-approved transfers.
Other Activities
In addition to its financial operations, IBRD is also involved in the following other activities:
Consultation: IBRD provides technical assistance to its member countries, both in connection with, and independently of, lending operations. There is a growing demand from borrowers for strategic advice, knowledge transfer, and capacity building. Such assistance includes assigning qualified professionals to survey developmental opportunities in member countries, analyzing their fiscal, economic and developmental environment, assisting member countries in devising coordinated
development programs, appraising projects suitable for investment and assisting member countries in improving their asset and liability management techniques.
Research and Training: To assist its developing member countries, IBRD-through the World Bank Institute and its partners-provides courses and other training activities related to economic policy development and administration for governments and organizations that work closely with IBRD.
Trust Fund Administration: IBRD, alone or jointly with IDA, administers on behalf of donors, funds restricted for specific uses. These funds are held in trust and are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J-Management of External Funds and Other Services.
Investment Management: IBRD offers investment management services to several types of external institutions, including central banks of member countries. One objective of providing the services to central banks is to assist them in developing portfolio management skills. These managed funds are not included in the assets of IBRD. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note J-Management of External Funds and Other Services.
Externally Financed Outputs (EFOs): IBRD offers donors the ability to contribute to IBRD’s projects and programs. Contributions received must be utilized for the purposes specified by the donors and are therefore considered restricted until applied by IBRD for the donor-specified purposes.
Advance Market Commitment (AMC) for Vaccines against Pneumococcal Diseases: AMC is a multilateral initiative. Its principal goal is to accelerate the creation of a market and sustainable production capacity for pneumococcal vaccines for developing countries, by financing the incremental capital cost associated with the development and production of qualifying vaccines. The $1.5 billion of AMC donor pledged assets is funded by six donors. IBRD is providing the financial platform for the AMC by holding donor pledged assets as an intermediary agent and passing them on to GAVI Alliance when the conditions of the AMC are met. In addition, should a donor fail to pay or delay in paying any amounts coming due, IBRD has committed to paying from its own funds any amounts due and payable by the donor, to the extent there is a shortfall in total donor funds received. For further details on AMC see the notes to Financial Statements-Note J-Management of External Funds and Other Services.
4.	INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES
IBRD manages its investments in two portfolios: a liquid asset portfolio and a long-term income portfolio.
Liquid Asset Portfolio
IBRD's liquid assets are held principally in highly-rated fixed income securities. These securities include obligations of governments and other official entities, time deposits and other unconditional obligations of banks and financial institutions, currency and interest rate swaps (including currency forward contracts), asset-backed securities (including mortgage-backed securities), and futures, options and swaptions contracts.
Liquidity risk arises in the general funding of IBRD's activities and in the management of its financial positions. It includes the risk of being unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all of IBRD's financial commitments.
The primary objective for IBRD in the management of liquid assets is to protect the principal amount of these investments. In addition, IBRD seeks to achieve a reasonable return on the liquid asset portfolio using prudent asset and risk management techniques. The General Investment Authorization for IBRD approved by the Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IBRD can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for investment, establishing risk parameters relative to benchmarks, such as an overall stop-loss limit and duration deviation, specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes, as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility for risk monitoring and compliance.
Under IBRD's liquidity management guidelines, aggregate liquid asset holdings are kept at or above a specified prudential minimum in order to safeguard against cash flow interruptions. That minimum is equal to the highest consecutive six months of expected debt service obligations plus one-half of approved net loan disbursements (if positive) as projected for the relevant fiscal year. The FY 2010
prudential minimum liquidity level has been set at $20 billion, an increase of $1 billion from that set for FY 2009. In general, the size of the liquid asset portfolio should not exceed 150% of the prudential minimum liquidity level. From time to time, IBRD may however hold liquid assets over the specified maximum level to provide flexibility in timing its borrowing transactions and to meet working capital needs. At June 30, 2009 the liquid asset portfolio was 193% of the prudential minimum liquidity level primarily due to pre-funding of anticipated large loan disbursements in FY 2010.
Liquid assets may be held in three distinct subportfolios: stable; operational; and discretionary, each with different risk profiles and performance benchmarks.
The stable portfolio is principally an investment portfolio holding the prudential minimum level of liquidity, which is set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Investment of up to 20% of the stable portfolio may be contracted out to external managers.
Separate investment guidelines which conform to IBRD's overall Investment Guidelines are provided to each external manager.
The operational portfolio provides working capital for IBRD's day-to-day cash flow requirements.
The discretionary portfolio, when used, provides flexibility for the execution of IBRD's borrowing program and can be used to take advantage of attractive market opportunities.
Figure 4 represents IBRD's liquid asset portfolio size and structure at the end of FY 2009 and FY
2008,	excluding investment assets associated with certain other post-employment benefits.
At June 30, 2009, the aggregate size of the IBRD liquid asset portfolio was $36,762 million, reflecting an increase of $14,022 million from June 30, 2008,
Figure 4: Liquid Asset Portfolio Composition
In millions of U.S. dollars
consistent to the pre-funding activity discussed previously.
IBRD's liquid asset portfolio is largely composed of assets denominated in and hedged into U.S. dollars with net exposure to short-term interest rates. The debt funding these liquid assets also shares similar currency and duration profiles. This is a direct consequence of IBRD's exchange rate and interest rate risk management policies (see Section 6-Financial Risk Management), combined with appropriate investment benchmarks. In addition to monitoring gross investment returns compared to their benchmarks, IBRD also monitors overall investment earnings net of funding costs (see Section 8-Results of Operations).
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, IBRD enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Table 9 summarizes IBRD's significant contractual cash obligations, by remaining maturity, at June 30, 2009. Debt includes all borrowings excluding derivatives, but does not include any adjustment for unamortized premiums, discounts or effects of fair value adjustments (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E- Borrowings). Operating lease expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate-related obligations and equipment. Other long-term liabilities include accrued liabilities for staff compensation and benefits. Operating leases, contractual purchases and capital expenditures, and other long term obligations include amounts which will be shared with IDA, IFC and MIGA in accordance with cost sharing and service arrangements (additional information can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note I-Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income).
Excluded from Table 9 are a number of obligations to be settled in cash. These obligations are presented in IBRD's balance sheet and include undisbursed loans; short-term borrowings; payable for currency and interest rate swaps; payable for investment securities purchased, cash received under agency arrangements, and payable for transfers approved by the Board of Governors.
Long-Term Income Portfolio
During FY 2009, IBRD started implementing the Long-Term Income Portfolio (LTIP). The objective of the LTIP program is to increase IBRD’s income over the long-term by investing part of its capital in a diversified portfolio of risk assets, including listed equity securities. LTIP is intended to be a long-term multicurrency portfolio, swapped back into U.S. dollars. As of June 30, 2009, the market value of the portfolio is $1,061 million, reflecting $61 million of unrealized capital gains to IBRD and is comprised of 62% developed market public equities and 38% developed market fixed income securities.
As of June 30, 2009, $1 billion of assets had been invested in the LTIP portfolio. Originally the Executive Directors approved management’s proposal for a $3 billion portfolio to be implemented over two to three years. In response to the global financial turmoil and the resulting increase in loan commitments, management has decided to temporarily limit the funding of the LTIP portfolio at $1 billion.
The returns and average balances of IBRD’s investments portfolios in FY 2009 compared to FY
2008	are presented in Table 10. These returns exclude investment assets funding certain other postemployment benefits. The lower returns in FY
2009	were due mainly to lower average short-term interest rates in FY 2009 compared to FY 2008 (see Figure 10).
IBRD enters into derivative transactions to manage its investments portfolio. The main purposes of these derivative instruments are to enhance the return, and manage the overall duration, of the portfolio.
5.	FUNDING RESOURCES
Equity
Total shareholders' equity, as reported in IBRD's balance sheet at June 30, 2009, was $40,037 million compared to $41,548 million at June 30, 2008. The $1,511 million decrease from FY 2008 primarily reflects the $2,566 million negative impact of cumulative effect of adoption of FAS 159 and $1,581 million charge to other comprehensive income related to net actuarial losses on benefit plans, partially offset by the net income for the year of $3,114 million.
IBRD's equity base plays a critical role in securing its financial objectives. By enabling IBRD to absorb risk out of its own resources, its equity base protects shareholders from a possible call on callable capital. The adequacy of IBRD's equity capital is judged on the basis of its ability to generate future net income sufficient to absorb potential risks and support
normal loan growth, without reliance on additional shareholder capital.
For management purposes, IBRD closely monitors equity as defined and utilized in the equity-to-loans ratio. Table 11 presents the composition of this measure at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The equity-to-loans ratio is a summary statistic that IBRD uses as one measure of the adequacy of its risk-bearing capacity. IBRD also uses a stress test as a measure of income-generating capacity and an input to the assessment of capital adequacy.
As presented in Figure 5, IBRD's equity-to-loans
ratio decreased during FY 2009, on both a reported basis (excluding cumulative translation adjustments and fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolio, net) and a Fair Value basis. The decrease in equity-to-loans ratio on a reported basis to 34.53% at June 30, 2009 from 37.62% at June 30, 2008 was due primarily to the increase in lending.
Capital
Shareholder support for IBRD is reflected in the capital backing it has received from its members. At June 30, 2009, the authorized capital of IBRD was $190,811 million, of which $189,918 million had been subscribed. Of the subscribed capital, $11,491 million had been paid-in and $178,427 million was callable. Of the paid-in capital, $9,883 million was available for lending and $1,608 million was not available for lending. The terms of payment of IBRD's capital and the restrictions on its use that are derived from the Articles and from resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors are as follows:
Paid-in Capital
(i)	$3,223 million of IBRD's capital was initially paid in gold or U.S. dollars or was converted from the currency of the subscribing members into U.S. dollars. This amount may, under the Articles, be freely used by IBRD in its operations.
(ii)	$8,234 million of IBRD's capital was paid in the national currencies of the subscribing members. Under the Articles this amount is subject to maintenance of value obligations and may be used for funding loans only with the consent of the member whose currency is involved, or used for administrative expenses without the need for consent of the member whose currency is involved. In addition, these national currencies may be used by IBRD following a decision by the Board of Executive Directors to invest or lend in that currency, or swap the national currency into another currency for investment or lending purposes, provided it has the consent of the member whose currency is involved. In accordance with such consents, $5,704 million of this amount was being used in IBRD's lending and investment operations at June 30, 2009.
(iii)	$34 million of IBRD's capital was converted to U.S. dollars from the currency of the subscribing members by providing U.S. dollar denominated nonnegotiable, non-interest bearing demand notes, encashable in the currency of the subscribing member. This amount may, under the terms of the note, be encashed for administrative expenses or, after all subscribed capital has been called, IBRD will have the right to encash the note to meet its obligations.
Callable Capital
(iv)	$151,934 million of IBRD's capital may, under the Articles, be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it. This amount is thus not available for use by IBRD in making loans.
Payment on any such call may be made, at the option of the particular member, either in gold, in U.S. dollars or in the currency required to discharge the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made.
(v)	$26,493 million of IBRD's capital is to be called only when required to meet obligations of IBRD for funds borrowed or on loans guaranteed by it, pursuant to resolutions of IBRD's Board of Governors (though such conditions are not required by the Articles). Of this amount, 10% would be payable in gold or U.S. dollars and 90% in the national currencies of the subscribing members. While these resolutions are not legally binding on future Boards of Governors, they do record an understanding among members that this amount will not be called for use by IBRD in its lending activities or for administrative purposes. No call has ever been made on IBRD's callable capital. Any calls on unpaid subscriptions are required to be uniform, but the obligations of the members of IBRD to make payment on such calls are independent of each other. If the amount received on a call is insufficient to meet the obligations of IBRD for which the call is made, IBRD has the right and is bound to make further calls until the amounts received are sufficient to meet such obligations. However, no member may be required on any such call or calls to pay more than the unpaid balance of its capital subscription.
At June 30, 2009, $103,604 million (58.1%) of the uncalled capital was callable from the member countries of IBRD that are also members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). This amount exceeded IBRD's outstanding borrowings including swaps at June 30, 2009. Table 12 sets out the capital subscriptions of those countries and the callable amounts.
The United States is IBRD's largest shareholder. Under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, the Par Value Modification Act and other U.S. legislation, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury is permitted to pay up to $7,663 million of the uncalled portion of the subscription of the United States, if it were called by IBRD, without any requirement of further congressional action. The balance of the uncalled portion of the U.S. subscription, $22,303 million, has been authorized by the U.S. Congress but not appropriated. Further action by the U.S. Congress would be required to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay any portion of this balance. The General Counsel of the U.S. Treasury has rendered an opinion that the entire uncalled portion of the
U.S. subscription is an obligation backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, notwithstanding that congressional appropriations have not been obtained with respect to certain portions of the subscription. For a further discussion of capital stock, restricted currencies, maintenance of value and membership refer to the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note B-Capital Stock, Restricted Currencies, Maintenance of Value and Membership.
Table 12: Capital Subscriptions of DAC Members of OECD Countries
In millions of U.S. dollars
a.	See details regarding the capital subscriptions of all members of IBRD at June 30, 2009 in Financial Statements-Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power.
Borrowings Source of Funding
IBRD diversifies its sources of funding by offering its securities to institutional and retail investors around the world, both through global offerings and by way of bond issues designed to meet the needs of specific markets or types of investors. Under its Articles, IBRD may borrow only with the approval of the member in whose markets the funds are raised and the member in whose currency the borrowing is denominated, and only if each such member agrees that the proceeds may be exchanged for the currency of any other member without restriction.
Funding Operations
In FY 2009, medium- and long-term debt raised directly in financial markets by IBRD amounted to $44,331 million compared to $19,091 million in FY
2008.	Table 13 summarizes IBRD's funding operations for FY 2009 and FY2008.
Table 13: Funding Operations Indicators____________
Medium- and long-term funding raised excluding derivatives by currency for FY 2009, as compared to FY 2008, is shown in Figure 6.
Funding raised in any given year is used for IBRD's general operations, including loan disbursements, refinancing of maturing debt and prefunding for future lending activities. IBRD determines its funding requirements based on a 3-year rolling horizon and funds one third of the projected amount in the current fiscal year. In FY 2009, IBRD funding increased significantly to fulfill larger loan commitments by member countries due to the global financial crisis.
IBRD strategically repurchases calls its debt to reduce the cost of borrowings, reduce exposure to refunding requirements in a particular year, or to meet other operational or strategic needs. During FY
2009,	IBRD repurchased or called $2,902 million of its outstanding borrowings ($4,376 million in FY 2008).
Use of Derivatives
Generally, new funding is initially swapped into floating-rate U.S. dollars, with conversion to other currencies or fixed-rate funding being carried out subsequently in accordance with loan funding requirements. Figures 7a and 7b illustrate the effect of derivatives on both the interest rate structure and currency composition of the borrowings portfolio at June 30, 2009. IBRD does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes in the borrowings portfolio.
Interest rate swaps and currency swaps are also used for asset/liability management purposes to match the pool of liabilities as closely as possible to the interest rate and currency characteristics of liquid assets and loans. However, during FY 2008, IBRD entered into a number of interest rate swaps as part of a strategy involving the extension of its equity duration aimed at managing the interest rate sensitivity of its operating income.
A more detailed analysis of borrowings outstanding is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note E-Borrowings.
6.	FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IBRD assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing development banking services. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IBRD is country credit risk, or loan portfolio risk.
Governance Structure
A Risk Management governance structure supports Senior Management in their oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
For financial risk management, there is a Finance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. The Finance Committee makes recommendations and, where appropriate to the topic, takes decisions in the areas of financial policy, the adequacy and allocation of risk capital, and oversight of financial reporting. Three Subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Strategy, Performance and Risk Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Finance Initiatives Subcommittee.
The Strategy, Performance and Risk Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IBRD are measured, reported and managed. The Subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, investing activities, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. In addition, the Subcommittee meets quarterly to formally review current and proposed business strategy and risk limits/policies, along with business results, and financial risk profile to facilitate alignment between business and risk management. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on loans and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The Finance Initiatives Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implications of implementing new initiatives that may impact IBRD.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IBRD, is identified, measured and monitored by the Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Vice-President, Corporate Finance and Risk Management. This unit is independent from IBRD's operational business units. Moreover, in order to further protect the independence of the unit, individual country credit risk ratings are not shared with the Executive Directors and are not made public. In addition to continuously reviewing the creditworthiness of IBRD’s borrowers, this department is responsible for assessing loan portfolio risk, determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term.
Market risks, liquidity risks and counterparty credit risks in IBRD's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which also reports to the Vice-
President, Corporate Finance and Risk Management. The Corporate Finance Department works with IBRD's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IBRD. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the loans, investments and borrowings portfolios.
The primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IBRD's financial operations resides with each of IBRD's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal controls in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IBRD. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IBRD manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, operational and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IBRD's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
Managing Risk-Bearing Capacity
The risk-bearing capacity of IBRD is the adequacy of its capital to absorb credit shocks and still be able to lend for development purposes without the need for additional shareholder support. The Executive Directors review IBRD's risk-bearing capacity based on a variety of metrics, including a framework of stress testing and simpler measures such as the equity-to-loans ratio, to assess capital adequacy. The equity-to-loans ratio is guided by the Strategic Capital Adequacy Framework with a target risk coverage range for the equity-to-loans ratio of 23 to 27 percent.
The risk that a significant portion of its loan portfolio may go into extended arrears is the most significant risk faced by IBRD, and almost all of IBRD's equity capital is held against this risk. Credit risk is measured in terms of both probable and unexpected losses from protracted payments arrears. Probable losses are covered by IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and unexpected losses are covered by income-generating capacity and equity.
The framework of stress testing provides a basis for evaluating whether IBRD has sufficient financial capacity to be able to (i) absorb the income loss due to a credit shock, and (ii) generate sufficient income to support loan growth in the following years. The first requirement on the degree of shock absorption is designed to reduce the probability of having to rely on additional shareholder support (in terms of additional paid-in capital or a call on callable capital). This is intended both to protect shareholders and to support IBRD's credit standing, which reduces borrowing costs and correspondingly, lending rates for borrowers. The second requirement on loan growth reflects the view that as a development institution, IBRD needs to play a positive role in a crisis by maintaining the capacity to continue lending to assist recovery in borrowing member countries. One of the credit shock events used in the stress testing framework is an estimate of the amount of the loan portfolio that could enter nonaccrual status (payment arrears in excess of six months) in the next three years at an appropriate confidence level.
IBRD strives to immunize its risk-bearing capacity from fluctuations in exchange rates by matching the currency composition of its equity capital with that of its loan portfolio, with the intent of protecting the equity-to-loans ratio from exchange rate movements.
The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to shortterm interest rate movements arises primarily due to the nature of asset the equity funds. The sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates has been increasing as borrowers have chosen to borrow from IBRD primarily on floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based loans. As a result, IBRD’s operating income has become more volatile and vulnerable to low shortterm interest rates. Against this backdrop, in FY
2008,	IBRD implemented a program that extended the duration of its equity by entering into a number of interest rate swaps as a means of stabilizing operating income by restoring a greater exposure to long-term interest rates.
Credit Risk Country Credit Risk
Country credit risk is the risk of loss due to a country not meeting its contractual obligations. IBRD's Credit Risk Department continuously reviews the credit risk of its borrowing member countries. These reviews are taken into account in determining IBRD's overall country programs and lending operations, used to estimate the appropriate level of provisions for losses on loans and guarantees, and used to assess the adequacy of IBRD's income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital. In keeping with standard practice, probable losses inherent in the portfolio due to country credit risk are covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, while unexpected losses due to country credit risk are covered by income-generating capacity and risk-bearing capital.
Portfolio concentration risk, which arises when a small group of borrowers account for a large share of loans outstanding, is a key concern for IBRD and is carefully managed, in part, through an exposure limit for loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees to a single borrowing country. Under the current guidelines, IBRD's exposure to a single borrowing country is restricted to the lower of an Equitable Access Limit or the Single Borrower Limit. The Equitable Access Limit is equal to 10% of IBRD's subscribed capital, reserves and unallocated surplus. The Single Borrower Limit is established by assessing its impact on the overall portfolio risk relative to risk-bearing capacity, as measured by the level of usable equity. The Single Borrower Limit is determined by the Executive Directors each year at the time they consider the adequacy of IBRD's reserves and the allocation of its net income from the preceding fiscal year. For FY
2009,	the Single Borrower Limit was $15.5 billion and the Equitable Access Limit at June 30, 2009 was $21.8 billion. As depicted in Figure 8, IBRD's largest exposure (including the present value of guarantees) to a single borrowing country was $12.7 billion at June 30, 2009.
For FY 2010, the Single Borrower Limit has been set at $16.5 billion, an increase of $1 billion over the limit at June 30, 2009.
Since the current exposure data presented are at a point in time, evaluating these exposures relative to the limit requires consideration of the repayment profiles of existing loans, as well as disbursement profiles and projected new loans and guarantees.
Under certain circumstances, IBRD would be able to continue to lend to a borrower that was reaching the single borrower exposure limit by entering into an arrangement that would prevent its net exposure from exceeding the limit. Any such arrangement would need to be approved in advance by IBRD's Executive Directors. As of June 30, 2009 IBRD had entered into one such arrangement with China. As of this date, China had not reached the single borrower exposure limit and therefore, activation of this arrangement was not required.
Overdue and Non-performing Loans
When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges due to IBRD, IBRD has an option to suspend disbursements immediately on all loans. IBRD's current policy however, is to exercise this option through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 3. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IDA credits may become overdue. For borrowers with IBRD loans who become overdue in their debt service payments on IDA credits, IBRD also applies the treatment described in Box 3.
See Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Loans and Guarantees for a summary of countries with loans or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30,
2009.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD maintains an accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees to recognize the probable
losses inherent in both the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees is discussed in Section 7, Critical Accounting Policies.
IBRD's provision for losses on loans and guarantees covers probable credit losses from protracted arrears. The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the allowance for losses on loans and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the provision. In addition, the Audit Committee is apprised by management at least twice a year on the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Treatment of Protracted Arrears
In 1991, the Executive Directors adopted a policy to assist members with protracted arrears to IBRD to mobilize sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. This policy is conditional on members agreeing to implement certain requirements including an acceptable structural adjustment program, adopting a financing plan to clear all arrears to IBRD and other multilateral creditors, and continuing to service their obligations to IBRD and other multilateral creditors on time.
It is IBRD's practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans. During FY 1996 and FY 2002, exceptions were made to that practice with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro, formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in connection with the financial assistance package for BiH in 1996. See the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies, for additional information.
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations.
IBRD's commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
6
0
In the normal course of its business, IBRD utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments to reduce funding costs through its borrowing activities and to meet the financial needs of its borrowers, to generate income through its investment activities and to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IBRD's funding, investment and asset/ liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IBRD controls the counterparty credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and foreign exchange transactions through its credit approval process, the use of collateral agreements and risk limits, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process
involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values, estimates of potential future movements in those values and collateral agreements with counterparties. If there is a collateral agreement with the counterparty to reduce credit risk, then the amount of collateral obtained is based on the credit rating of the counterparty.
For foreign exchange and derivative products, IBRD treats the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While notional principal is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign
exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a financial instruments or derivative in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IBRD and, therefore, creates an exposure for IBRD. When the mark-to-market is negative, IBRD owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk. Under the mark-to-market collateral arrangements, when IBRD is in a net receivable position, counterparties are required to post collateral with IBRD to mitigate its credit risk exposure to these counterparties. Collateral posted is in the form of certain approved highly liquid investment securities or cash. Where IBRD is permitted to repledge collateral received in the form of liquid investment securities in connection with swap agreements, the cash proceeds are subsequently invested in money market and other liquid financial instruments under terms substantially equivalent to those set forth in IBRD’s Investment Guidelines, and are included under Investments - Trading on the Balance Sheet.
When IBRD has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and the parties have entered into a master derivatives agreement which contains legally enforceable close-out netting provisions, the “net” mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with the same counterparty. If this net mark-to-market is negative, then IBRD's exposure to the counterparty is considered to be zero. For the contractual value, notional amounts and related credit risk exposure amounts by instrument, see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note G-Credit Risk.
Table 14 provides details of IBRD's estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category.
The increase in credit exposure reflects an increase in the size of the IBRD investment program due to a large increase in held liquidity as a result of the market financial crisis offset by a significant decrease in IBRD’s net swap exposure. Increases in the held portfolio size are reflected largely in the increase in holdings of sovereign and sovereign-guaranteed securities. In addition, the credit composition of the portfolio has changed due to significant ratings downgrades across all categories of IBRD’s investment counterparts accompanied by an increase in “AA”-rated sovereign investments. After the effects of exposure netting arrangements across multiple transactions with a single counterpart, the credit exposure from swaps increased from $7,312 million at June 30, 2008 to $8,339 million at June 30, 2009. The swap credit exposure of $8,339 million is offset by collateral of $7,209 million which results in a total net swap exposure of $1,130 million.
Market Risk
IBRD faces risks which result from market movements, primarily changes in interest and exchange rates. In comparison to country credit risk, IBRD's exposure to market risks is small. IBRD has an integrated asset/liability management framework to flexibly assess and hedge market risks associated with the characteristics of the products in IBRD's portfolios.
Asset/Liability Management
The objective of asset/liability management for IBRD is to ensure adequate funding for each loan product and liquid asset at the most attractive available cost, and to manage the currency composition, maturity profile and interest rate sensitivity characteristics of the portfolio of liabilities supporting each lending product and liquid asset in accordance with the particular requirements for that product or liquid asset and within prescribed risk parameters. The Fair Value information is used in the asset/liability management process. Table 15 details the Fair Value information of each group of loan and debt products.
Use of Derivatives
As part of its asset/liability management process, IBRD employs derivatives to manage and align the characteristics of its assets and liabilities. IBRD uses derivative instruments to adjust the interest rate repricing characteristics of specific balance sheet assets and liabilities, or groups of assets and liabilities with similar repricing characteristics, and to modify the currency composition of net assets and
liabilities as well as to adjust the duration of its equity.
Interest Rate Risk
There are two main sources of potential interest rate risk to IBRD. The first is the interest rate sensitivity associated with the net spread between the rate IBRD earns on its assets and the cost of borrowings, which fund those assets. The second is the interest rate sensitivity of the income earned from funding a portion of IBRD assets with equity. In general, lower nominal interest rates result in lower lending rates which, in turn, reduce the nominal earnings on IBRD's equity. In addition, as the loan portfolio has shifted from pool loans to LIBOR-based loans in recent years, the sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in market interest rates has increased. This has caused IBRD to implement an equity duration extension strategy during FY 2008 aimed at reducing the interest rate sensitivity of its operating income going forward.
The borrowing cost pass-through formulation incorporated in the lending rates charged on most of IBRD's existing loans has traditionally helped limit the interest rate sensitivity of the net spread earnings
on its loan portfolio. At June 30, 2009, such cost pass-through loans accounted for 49% of the outstanding loan portfolio (55% at June 30, 2008). All cost pass-through loans, including single currency and multicurrency pool loans as well as variable-spread loans, pose residual interest rate risk, given the lag inherent in the lending rate calculation.
Another potential risk arises because the cost passthrough currency pool products have traditionally been funded with a large share of medium- and long-term fixed-rate debt, to provide the borrowers with a reasonably stable interest basis. Given that the cumulative impact of interest rate changes over time has resulted in a decline in the level of interest rates, the cost of these historical fixed-rate borrowings in the multicurrency pool and the single currency pools is currently considerably higher than IBRD's new borrowing costs. The amount of debt allocated to the multicurrency debt pool will exceed the balance of the multicurrency loan pool in FY 2012 and FY 2014. The debt which funds these loans has maturities that extend beyond those of the loans. This debt overhang presents a risk of loss to IBRD because the debt carries fixed interest rates.
Over-funding of the multicurrency loan pool will reach a maximum of approximately $2.3 billion in FY 2017. Strategies for managing this risk include changing the interest rate characteristics of the overfunded portion of the debt from fixed to floating rates beyond FY 2008 through the use of forward-starting swaps. IBRD began executing these forward-starting swaps in FY 2000 and as of June 30, 2009, the overhang was within acceptable guidelines. Should the amount of debt overhang remain at the currently projected levels, IBRD does not anticipate executing additional forward-starting swaps. This is subject to there being no significant prepayments of the multicurrency loan pool that would generate further debt overhang, which may need to be swapped to floating-rate liabilities.
Interest rate risk on non-cost pass-through products, which accounted for 51% of the loan portfolio at June 30, 2009 (45% at June 30, 2008), is managed by using interest rate swaps to closely align the rate sensitivity characteristics of the loan portfolio with those of their underlying funding, except for the component affected by IBRD’s equity duration extension strategy. As the portfolio of fixed-spread loans increases, the proportion of non-cost pass-though products will grow.
The interest rate risk on IBRD's liquid asset portfolio, which includes the risk that the value of assets in the liquid portfolio will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates, is managed within specified duration-mismatch limits and is further limited by stop-loss limits.
Interest rate risk also arises from a variety of other factors, including differences in the timing between the contractual maturity or repricing of IBRD's assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments. On floating rate assets and liabilities, IBRD is exposed to timing mismatches between the re-set dates on its floating rate receivables and payables. To mitigate its exposure to these timing mismatches, IBRD has executed some overlay interest rate swaps.
During FY 2008, IBRD implemented an equity duration extension strategy. This strategy seeks to increase the duration of IBRD’s equity to reduce income volatility and stabilize operating income by taking a greater exposure to long-term interest rates. This strategy is designed to reduce the sensitivity of IBRD's operating income to changes in short-term market interest rates, which has been increasing as more borrowers have chosen primarily floating rate terms since the introduction of LIBOR-based loans.
Exchange Rate Risk
In order to minimize exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment, IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swap activities) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by the Articles. In addition, IBRD's policy is to minimize the exchange rate sensitivity of its equity-to-loans ratio. It carries out this policy by undertaking currency conversions periodically to align the currency composition of its equity to that of its outstanding loans. This policy is designed to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the equity-to-loans ratio, thereby preserving IBRD's ability to better absorb unexpected losses from arrears of loan repayments regardless of the market environment.
Figure 9 presents the currency composition of significant balance sheet components (net of swaps) at June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of IBRD's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. For a discussion on how liquidity is managed, refer to Section 4-Investment Activities.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IBRD, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IBRD attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal control that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IBRD and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IBRD operates.
The operational risk management framework used by IBRD is based on a Board-approved Integrated Risk Management Framework and involves the following core steps:
•	Key operational risks are identified annually and documented using a combination of tools including business process review and risk assessments.
•	Operational risks are assessed based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters.
•	Controls that mitigate operational risks are evaluated using a combination of processes including self assessments, independent walk through tests of processes, compliance testing by IBRD’s internal audit department, quality assurance testing by management, project reviews undertaken by the Independent Evaluation Group and annual internal representation letters from business unit managers.
•	The results of the work undertaken to evaluate risks and operational effectiveness of internal controls are reported to the Audit Committee.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management makes an annual assertion whether, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in COSO. Concurrently, IBRD's external auditors have provided an attestation report that management's assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report, that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IBRD's internal control over external financial reporting. As of June 30, 2009 no such significant changes had occurred.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are those processes which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure by IBRD. Management has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of such controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the President and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2009.
7.	CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IBRD's financial statements contain a summary of IBRD's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees
IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding plus the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned risk rating. Loans in the non-accrual portfolio are individually assigned the highest risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default. For loans that are carried at fair value, the credit risk assessment is incorporated in the determination of fair value.
The determination of a borrower's risk rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities.
IBRD periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Actual losses may differ from expected
The accumulated provision for loan losses is separately reported in the balance sheet as a deduction from IBRD's total loans. The accumulated provision for losses on guarantees is included in other liabilities. Increases or decreases in the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees are reported in the Statement of Income as provision for losses on loans and guarantees.
Additional information on IBRD's provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related policies and Note D-Loans and Guarantees.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
When possible, fair values are determined by quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. Some financial assets and liabilities use valuation techniques which require significant unobservable inputs. These inputs require management to make assumptions and judgments.
All the financial models used for input to IBRD's financial statements are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review by qualified personnel. These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rates, exchange rates and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IBRD's financial position as reported in the financial statements.
IBRD believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters, ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally, and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
IBRD participates, along with IFC and MIGA, in pension and postretirement benefit plans that cover substantially all of their staff members. All costs, assets and liabilities associated with the plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are subsequently shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. The underlying actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and funded status associated with these plans are based
on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. For further details, please refer to Notes to Financial Statements-Note K-Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.
8.	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
In FY 2009, operating income decreased by $1,699 million from $2,271 million in FY 2008 to $572 million, primarily due to an increase of $284 million in provision for losses on loans and guarantees in FY 2009, compared to a release of $684 million in FY 2008.
Net income on a reported basis was $3,114 million in FY 2009, compared to a $1,491 million in FY 2008, an increase of $1,623 million. This was primarily due to higher net unrealized gains of $3,280 million due to IBRD’s fair value adjustments on non-trading portfolios, net in FY 2009 compared to net unrealized losses of $40 million in FY 2008. For more details refer to Fair Value Adjustment on Non-Trading Portfolios, net, discussed later in this section.
Interest Rate Environment
During FY 2009, short-term interest rates for the U.S. dollar were lower than those in FY 2008. Figure 10 illustrates these general trends for the six-month LIBOR U.S dollar rates.
Figure 10: Six-Month LIBOR Interest Rates U.S. Dollar
Operating Income
IBRD's Operating Income is broadly comprised of a net spread on interest-earning assets, plus the contribution of equity, other loan income, the increase to or release from the provision for losses on loans and guarantees, and administrative expenses. Table 16 shows a breakdown of income, net of funding costs, on a reported basis.
The decrease of $1,699 million in Operating Income
is explained by the following factors.
•	A $968 million reduction in income relating to the provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2009, there was a $284 million increase in the provision for losses on loans and guarantees due primarily to the impact of changes in the credit quality of the accrual portfolio.
During FY 2008, there was a $684 million release of provision for losses on loans, primarily due to the positive impact of developments in the nonaccrual portfolio.
•	A $553 million reduction in loan interest income, net of funding costs, was primarily due to a decrease of $505 million from equity funded loans, due to the lower shortterm interest rates, particularly U.S. dollar six month LIBOR, between the two years (see Figure 10). This was partially offset by a $236 million increase in other interest income from the equity duration extension swaps.
•	A $294 million decrease in other loan income, of which $269 million is associated with Liberia’s and Cote d’Ivoire’s clearance of all overdue interest and charges to IBRD in FY 2008.
•	A $63 million decrease in investment income, net of funding costs, mainly due to the widening of the credit spreads in global bond markets.
The increase of $612 million in Operating Income is
explained by the following factors.
•	A $286 million increase in other loan income, of which $269 million is associated with Liberia’s and Cote d’Ivoire’s clearance of all overdue interest and charges to IBRD.
•	A $279 million increase in the release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees. During FY 2008, there was a $684 million release of provision for losses on loans and guarantees compared to a release of $405 million during FY 2007.
The release of provision in FY 2008 primarily reflects the impact of developments in the nonaccrual portfolio while that in FY 2007 reflects the impact of a combination of changes in the creditworthiness of the loan portfolio, changes in the volume of loans and guarantees outstanding, net of translation adjustments and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probabilities of default to IBRD).
•	A $59 million increase in loan interest income, net of funding costs, as a result of higher loan spreads on the debt-funded portion of the pool loans associated with interest rate reset lag in a decreasing shortterm interest rate environment.
The above increases were partially offset by
•	A $28 million decrease in investment income, net of funding costs, mainly due to the widening of the credit spreads in global bond markets.
Net Noninterest Expense
The main components of net noninterest expense are presented in Table 17.
FY 2009 versus FY 2008
Net noninterest expense increased by $118 million primarily due to a $77 million increase in pension and other post retirement benefits and a $51 million increase in staff costs.
FY 2008 versus FY 2007
Net noninterest expense decreased by $2 million primarily due to a $62 million decrease in pension and other postretirement benefits expenses and an increase of $22 million of service fee revenue and EFO income, partially offset by a $79 million increase in staff costs, consultants fees and contractual services.
Fair Value Adjustment on Non-Trading Portfolios, net
During FY 2009, IBRD experienced net unrealized gains of $3,280 million, primarily due to gains from the asset/liability management portfolio and from the borrowings portfolio (see Figure 11, IBRD’s U.S. Dollar Funding Curve). For a detailed analysis, refer to Fair Value Adjustment on Non-Trading Portfolios, net, included in Section 2. During FY
2008,	IBRD experienced net unrealized losses of $40 million resulting from a combination of factors with offsetting implications, namely: lower interest rates in U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and British pound but higher rates in several other currencies such as euro, Australian dollar and South African rand; tightened credit spreads at the near-end but widened credit spreads beyond 7-years; significant
weakening of the U.S dollar against other currencies, and significant change in basis spreads.
Figure 11: IBRD’s U.S. Dollar Funding Curve
9.	GOVERNANCE
General Governance Management Changes
Ms. Anne-Marie Leroy was appointed as Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel of the World Bank effective March 9, 2009.
Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IBRD's Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IBRD. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board.
The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
•	Committee on Development Effectiveness
•	Audit Committee
•	Budget Committee
•	Personnel Committee
•	Ethics Committee
•	Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IBRD, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the full Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
Audit Committee
Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members of the Board of Executive Directors. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board of Executive Directors, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IBRD's member countries and a balanced representation between borrowing and nonborrowing member countries. Some or all of the responsibilities of individual committee members are performed by their alternates or advisors. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board of Executive Directors, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IBRD's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for reviewing the performance and recommending to the
Board the appointment of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on the institution's financial position and risk-bearing capacity. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit committees on an ongoing basis and updated its terms of reference in July 2009.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
•	The minutes of its meetings.
•	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by the Chairman, which document discussions held. These Reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents of IBRD.
•	“Statement(s) of the Chairman” and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
•	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in the Auditor Independence section.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The
Committee also reviews with the external auditor the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
Code of Conduct and Business Conduct Infrastructure
Staff members ethical obligations to the institution are embodied in its Core Values and Principles of Staff Employment. In support of this commitment, the institution has in place a Code of Professional Ethics, entitled Living our Values (the Code). The Code applies to all staff worldwide and is available on IBRD’s website, www.worldbank.org.
Orientation training for new staff and other ethics training, attended by approximately 3,000 staff annually, promote awareness and familiarize staff with the Code.
The World Bank Group is currently finalizing an updated Code, which is expected to be rolled out in the first quarter of FY 2010 as the “Code of Conduct.” An e-learning module on the updated Code is also in the final design phases, with rollout planned for the second quarter of FY 2010. This training will be for certification, and staff, including consultants, will be required to complete an acknowledgment that they will abide by the tenets of the Code.
In addition to the Code, the business conduct obligations of staff are articulated in the Staff Manual (Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules), Administrative Manual and other guidelines. The Principles and Staff Rules require that all staff avoid or properly manage conflicts of interest.
Further the Code, rules and policies, guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with the World Bank Group’s business conduct framework. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
The following World Bank Group units assist in communicating business conduct expectations to staff :
•	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct (EBC) works to ensure that staff are aware of their business conduct-related obligations. It provides insight on ethics trends to senior
management and oversees related outreach, training and communication initiatives. EBC also handles allegations of staff misconduct not involving significant fraud and corruption.
•	The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) is charged with investigating allegations of significant fraud and corruption both within the World Bank Group and in Bank-funded projects worldwide. It also trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption.
•	Both EBC and INT report directly to the President of the World Bank Group. Staff from these units include professionals from a broad range of disciplines including trainers, financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and staff with World Bank Group operational experience. These units maintain comprehensive websites to provide guidance on how to handle concerns.
The World Bank Group has both an Ethics HelpLine and a Fraud and Corruption hotline, overseen by EBC and INT respectively. These resources are referenced in the Code, and are run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free service in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. These phone services can accept calls in multiple languages. Other reporting channels include: phone, mail, email (EBC maintains a Lotus Notes service account called Ethics_HelpLine), anonymously, or through confidential submission through the units’ respective websites. Callers may also visit the offices in person.
IBRD has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and handling of recommendations and concerns identified during accounting, internal control and auditing processes.
The World Bank Group’s Staff Rules clarify and codify the obligations of staff in reporting suspected fraud, corruption or other misconduct that may threaten the operations or governance of the World Bank Group. Additionally, these rules offer protection from retaliation. In FY 2008, the institution implemented strengthened whistleblower protections.
Auditor Independence
The Board of Executive Directors adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IBRD. Key features of those principles include:
•	Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
•	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board of Executive Directors, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
•	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
External auditors are appointed to a five-year term of service. This is subject to annual reappointment based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of a resolution by the Executive Directors. In FY 2009 in connection with the mandatory rebidding process, KPMG began a five-year term as IBRD’s external auditor.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party.
IBRD's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
•	Quarterly and annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
•	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
•	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
10.	RECONCILIATION OF PRIOR YEAR FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORTED BASIS
IBRD's Condensed Fair Value Balance Sheet at June 30, 2008 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 18 below. Similarly, IBRD's Condensed Fair Value Statement of Income for the year ended June 30, 2008 is presented, with a reconciliation to the reported basis, in Table 19.
Glossary of Terms
Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. COSO was formed in 1985 to sponsor the National Commission on Fraudulent Financial Reporting, an independent private-sector initiative which studied the causal factors that can lead to fraudulent financial reporting. In 1992, COSO issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
Credit Default Swaps (CDS): A derivatives contract that provides protection against deteriorating credit quality and would allow one party to receive payment in the event of a default or specified credit event by a third party.
Currency Swaps (including Currency Forward Contracts): Currency swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies at one or more certain times in the future. The cash flows are based on a predetermined formula reflecting rates of interest and an exchange of principal.
Duration: Duration provides an indication of the interest rate sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in its underlying yield.
Equity-to-Loans Ratio: This ratio is the sum of usable capital plus the special and general reserves, cumulative translation adjustment (excluding amounts associated with fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net) and the proposed transfer from unallocated net income to general reserves (where there are firm estimates available) divided by the sum of loans outstanding, the present value of guarantees, net of the accumulated provision for losses on loans, effective and undisbursed DDOs and guarantees, deferred loan income and Long-Term Income Portfolio assets.
Failed Trades: Failed trades are securities transactions that do not settle on the contractual settlement date.
Forward Starting Swaps: A forward starting swap is an agreement under which the cash flow exchanges of the underlying interest rate swaps would begin to take effect from a specified future date.
Futures: Futures are contracts for delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified instrument at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts are traded on U.S. and international regulated exchanges.
Government and Agency Obligations: These obligations include marketable bonds, notes and other obligations issued by governments.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying instrument or economic condition.
Interest Rate Swaps: Interest rate swaps are agreements involving the exchange of periodic interest payments of
differing character, based on an underlying notional principal amount for a specified time.
LIBOR: London interbank offered rate.
Maintenance of Value: Agreements with members provide for the maintenance of the value, from the time of subscription, of certain restricted currencies. Additional payments to (or from) IBRD are required in the event the par value of the currency is reduced (or increased) to a significant extent, in the opinion of IBRD.
Net Disbursements: Loan disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
Post-98 loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued on or after July 31, 1998 and that were signed before May 16, 2007 or which were signed between May 16, 2007 and September 27, 2007 and for which the borrowers elected not to convert the terms of their loans to the terms for the new loans introduced on September 27, 2007.
Pre-98 loans: Loans for which the invitation to negotiate was issued prior to July 31, 1998.
Options: Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time from or to the seller of the option. The purchaser of an option pays a premium at the outset to the seller of the option, who then bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the price of the financial instrument underlying the option.
Repurchase and Resale Agreements and Securities Loans: Repurchase agreements are contracts under which a party sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase the same securities at a specified future date at a fixed price. The reverse of this transaction is called a resale agreement. A resale agreement involves the purchase of securities with a simultaneous agreement to sell back the same securities at a stated price on a stated date. Securities loans are contracts under which securities are lent for a specified period of time at a fixed price.
Return on Equity: This return is computed as net income divided by the average equity balance during the year.
Risk-bearing Capacity: The ability to absorb risks in the balance sheet while continuing normal operations without having to call on callable capital.
Short Sales: Short sales are sales of securities not held in the seller's portfolio at the time of the sale. The seller must purchase the security at a later date and bears the risk that the market value of the security will move adversely between the time of the sale and the time the security must be delivered.
Strategic Capital Adequacy Framework: Evaluates IBRD’s capital adequacy as measured by stress test and appropriate long term equity-to-loan target range. This target equity-to-loans range provides a background framework in the context of annual net income allocation decisions, as well as in the assessment of the initiatives for the use of capital. The capital adequacy framework has been approved by the Executive Directors.
Statutory Lending Limit: Under IBRD's Articles of Agreement, as applied, the total amount outstanding of loans, participations in loans, and callable guarantees may not exceed the sum of subscribed capital, reserves and surplus.
Swaptions: A swaption is an option which gives the holder the right to enter into an Interest Rate Swap or Currency Swap at a future date.
Time Deposits: Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks and other financial institutions.
Management’s Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting
The management of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of ils published financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally acceptcd in the United States of America and include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management.
The financial statements have been audited by an independent audit firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of the Executive Directors and their Committees. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit of IBRD's financial statements and attestation of its internal control over financial reporting was valid and appropriate. The independent auditors' reports accompany the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial statement presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management maintains a comprehensive system of controls intended to ensure that transactions arc executed in accordance with management's authorization, assets are safeguarded, and financial records are reliable. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal control over external financial reporting, which is subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and is revised as considered accessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and The circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal controls may vary over time.
IBRD assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial statement presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30. 20C9. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control- Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon this assessment, management believes that IBRD maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30. 2009. The independent audit firm that
KPMG LLP
2001 M Street, NW Washington, DC 20036
Independent Auditors' Report
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development:
We have examined management’s assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Commission of Sponsoring Organizations of (he Treadway Commission (COSO). IBRD’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assertion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assertion based on our examination.
We conducted our examination in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our examination included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our examination also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
An entity's internal control over financial reporting is a process effected by those charged with governance, management, and other personnel, designed lo provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation of reliable financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. An entity’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (l) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the entity: (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary lo permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the entity are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and those charged with governance: and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention, or timely detection and correction of unauthorized acquisition, use. or disposition of the entity's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent, or delect and correct misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assertion that IBRD maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30. 2009 is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing, the accompanying financial statements of IBRD as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. and our report dated August 5, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion.
L£p
August 5, 2009
President and Board of Executive Directors International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
Wo have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) as of June 30. 2009. including the summary statement of loans and the statement of subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as of June 30, 2009, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in retained earnings and cash flows for the fiscal year then ended (2009 financial statements). These financial statements arc the responsibility of IBRD's management. Our responsibility is lo express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. The accompanying financial statements of IBRD as of and for each of the years in the two-year period ended June 30, 2008. were audited by other auditors whose report dated August 7. 2008. expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
hi our opinion, the 2009 financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IBRD as of June 30. 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the fiscal year then ended in conformity widi U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have also examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting, that IBRD maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30. 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated August 5, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion.
LCP
August 5,2009
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is an international organization which commenced operations in 1946. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. The activities of IBRD are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IBRD, with separate assets and liabilities, and IBRD is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliated organizations are disclosed in the notes that follow. IDA’s main goal is to reduce poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed countries, who are members of IDA, by extending grants, development credits, guarantees and related technical assistance. IFC’s purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member’s guarantee. MIGA was established to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
IBRD is immune from taxation pursuant to Article VII, Section 9, Immunities from Taxation, of IBRD’s Articles of Agreement.
NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND RELATED POLICIES
IBRD’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments, the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees, the determination of net periodic cost from pension and other postretirement benefits plans, and the present value of benefit obligations.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
On August 5, 2009, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue, which was also the date through which IBRD’s management evaluated subsequent events.
Translation of Currencies: IBRD’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars for the purpose of summarizing IBRD’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IBRD is an international organization which conducts its operations in the currencies of all of its members. IBRD’s resources are derived from its capital, borrowings, and accumulated earnings in those various currencies. IBRD has a number of general policies aimed at minimizing exchange rate risk in a multicurrency environment. IBRD matches its borrowing obligations in any one currency (after swaps) with assets in the same currency, as prescribed by its Articles of Agreement. In addition, IBRD periodically undertakes currency conversions to more closely match the currencies underlying its Equity with those of the net loans outstanding.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates on which they are recognized or at an average of the market exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments are reflected in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Valuation of Capital Stock: In the Articles of Agreement, the capital stock of IBRD is expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” (1944 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1944 dollars into current dollars or into any other currency was eliminated. The Executive Directors of IBRD have decided, until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, that the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on July 1, 1944” in
Article II, Section 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD are interpreted to mean the Special Drawing Right (SDR) introduced by the International Monetary Fund, as valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being $1.20635 for one SDR (1974 SDR).
Maintenance of Value: Article II, Section 9 of the Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of the value (MOV), at the time of subscription, of restricted currencies. Maintenance of value amounts are determined by measuring the foreign exchange value of a member’s currency against the standard of value of IBRD capital based on the 1974 SDR. Members are required to make payments to IBRD if their currencies depreciate significantly relative to the standard of value. Furthermore, the Executive Directors have adopted a policy of reimbursing members whose currencies appreciate significantly in terms of the standard of value.
The net receivable or payable MOV amounts relating to restricted currencies out on loan, invested, swapped, or loaned to the member by IBRD or through IFC, and amounts that have been reclassified from receivables for those countries that have been in arrears for two years or more, are included as a component of Equity under Deferred Amounts to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings. For restricted currencies used in IBRD’s lending and investing operations, these MOV amounts are shown as a component of Equity since MOV becomes effective only as such currencies are repaid to IBRD.
Transfers Approved by the Board of Governors: In accordance with IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, as interpreted by the Executive Directors, the Board of Governors may exercise its reserved power to approve transfers to other entities for development purposes. These transfers, referred to as “Board of Governors-approved transfers”, are reported as expenses when incurred, upon approval.
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings consist of allocated amounts (Special Reserve, General Reserve, Pension Reserve, Surplus, Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments and Restricted Retained Earnings) and Unallocated Net Income.
The Special Reserve consists of loan commissions set aside pursuant to Article IV, Section 6 of the Articles of Agreement, which are to be held in liquid assets. These assets may be used only for the purpose of meeting liabilities of IBRD on its borrowings and guarantees in the event of defaults on loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by IBRD. The Special Reserve assets are included under Investments— Trading, and comprise obligations of the United States Government, its
agencies, and other official entities. The allocation of such commissions to the Special Reserve was discontinued in 1964 with respect to subsequent loans and no further additions are being made to it.
The General Reserve consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which, in the judgment of the Executive Directors, should be retained in IBRD’s operations.
The Pension Reserve consists of the difference between the cumulative actual funding of the Staff Retirement Plan (SRP) and other postretirement benefits plans, and the cumulative accounting income or expense for these plans, from prior fiscal years. This Pension Reserve is reduced when pension accounting expenses exceed the actual funding of these plans.
Surplus consists of earnings from prior fiscal years which are retained by IBRD until a further decision is made on their disposition or the conditions of transfer for specified uses have been met.
The Cumulative FAS 133 Adjustments consist of the effects associated with the application of FAS 133a from prior years. This amount includes the one-time cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133, the reclassification and amortization of the transition adjustments, the unrealized gains or losses on nontrading derivatives, and the cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 155.
Restricted Retained Earnings consist of contributions or income from prior years which are temporarily restricted.
Unallocated Net Income (Loss) consists of the current fiscal year’s net income (loss) adjusted for Board of Governors-approved transfers, and the equivalent amount for transfers funded from Surplus.
Loans: All of IBRD’s loans are made to or guaranteed by members, except loans to IFC. The majority of IBRD’s loans have repayment obligations based on specific currencies. IBRD also holds multicurrency loans which have repayment obligations in various currencies determined on the basis of a currency pooling system.
Any loan origination fees incorporated in a loan’s terms are deferred and recognized over the life of the loan as an adjustment of yield. However, incremental direct costs associated with originating loans are expensed as incurred, as such amounts are considered insignificant. The unamortized balance
a For the purpose of this document, FAS 133 refers to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by subsequent Standards. FAS 155 refers to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 155, Accounting For Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments.
of loan origination fees is included as a reduction of Loans Outstanding on the balance sheet, and the loan origination fee amortization is included in Interest under Income from Loans on the Statement of Income.
It is IBRD’s practice not to reschedule interest or principal payments on its loans or participate in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to its loans.
Exceptions were made to this practice during fiscal years 1996 and 2002 with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and Serbia and Montenegro (SaM), formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respectively, in connection with their succession to membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). These exceptions were based on criteria approved by the Executive Directors in fiscal year 1996 which limit eligibility for such treatment to a country: (a) that has emerged from a current or former member of IBRD; (b) that is assuming responsibility for a share of the debt of such member; (c) that, because of a major armed conflict in its territory involving extensive destruction of physical assets, has limited creditworthiness for servicing the debt it is assuming; and (d) for which rescheduling/ refinancing would result in a significant improvement in its repayment capacity, if appropriate supporting measures are taken. This treatment was based on a precedent established in 1975 after Bangladesh became independent from Pakistan. IBRD does not believe that any other borrowers with loans in nonaccrual status currently meet these eligibility criteria.
When modifications are made to the terms of existing loans, IBRD performs an evaluation to determine the required accounting treatment, including whether the modifications would result in the affected loans being accounted for as new loans, or as a continuation of the existing loans.
It is the policy of IBRD to place in nonaccrual status all loans made to or guaranteed by a member of IBRD if principal, interest, or other charges with respect to any such loan are overdue by more than six months, unless IBRD management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if development credits made by IDA to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all loans made to or guaranteed by that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IBRD. On the date a member’s loans are placed into nonaccrual status, unpaid interest and other charges accrued on loans outstanding to the member are deducted from the income of the current period. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans are included in income only to the extent that payments have been received by IBRD. If collectibility risk is considered
to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s loans may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new loans may have been restored. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
Loans are carried at amortized cost except those which contain embedded derivatives that require bifurcation, which IBRD has elected to measure at fair value.
Guarantees: IBRD generally provides guarantees of loans undertaken for, or securities issued in support of, projects located within a member country eligible for IBRD loans, as well as loans undertaken or securities issued by entities eligible for IBRD development policy lending. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IBRD to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IBRD would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed were not made by the debtor and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IBRD in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. In the event that a guarantee is called, IBRD has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IBRD on demand, or as IBRD may otherwise direct.
IBRD records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the financial statements.
Guarantee fee income received is deferred and amortized over the life of the guarantee.
IBRD records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. This provision, as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income, and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready, are included in Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Loans and Guarantees: Delays in receiving loan payments result in present value losses to IBRD since it does not charge fees or additional interest on any overdue interest or loan charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of interest and charges made according to the related loan's contractual
terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows. IBRD has not written off any of its loans.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provisions for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD's accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions for each portfolio. First, the total loan portfolio is segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the exposure for each country (defined as loans outstanding, deferred drawdown options and the present value of guarantees) is then assigned a credit risk rating. With respect to countries with loans in the accrual portfolio, these loans are grouped according to the assigned borrower risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency using IBRD's credit migration matrix. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency (probability of default to IBRD) and by the assumed severity of the loss given default.
The determination of borrowers' ratings is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors. IBRD periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge or addition to income.
For loans that are reported at fair value the provisions for losses on loans is included in the fair value amount of these loans, as the determination of the fair values takes credit risk into consideration.
Statement of Cash Flows: For the purpose of IBRD's Statement of Cash Flows, cash is defined as the amount of unrestricted currencies Due from Banks.
Investments: Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IBRD’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio.
Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IBRD’s trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to enhance investment returns.
These derivatives are carried at fair value. From time to time, IBRD enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the time of commitment.
IBRD may require collateral in the form of approved liquid securities from individual counterparties or cash in order to mitigate its credit exposure to these counterparties. For collateral received in the form of cash from counterparties, IBRD records the cash and a corresponding obligation to return the cash. Collateral received in the form of liquid securities is only recorded on IBRD's Balance Sheet to the extent that it has been transferred under securities lending agreements in return for cash. IBRD does not currently offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments that have been executed with the same counterparty under master netting agreements; as a result, the fair value amounts recognized for the obligation to return cash collateral received from counterparties are not offset with the fair value amounts recognized for these derivative instruments.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received: Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are recorded at face value which represents fair value. IBRD receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IBRD under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IBRD's Balance Sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IBRD's Balance Sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital: Payments on some of these instruments are due to IBRD upon demand and are thus carried and reported at face value as assets on the Balance Sheet. Others are due to IBRD on demand but only after the Bank’s callable subscribed capital has been entirely called pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 (a) of the Articles of Agreement. These are carried and reported at face value as a reduction to equity. All demand obligations are held in bank accounts which bear IBRD’s name.
Premises and Equipment: Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. IBRD computes depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the owned assets, which range between two and fifty years. For leasehold improvements, depreciation and amortization is computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life.
Borrowings: To ensure funds are available for lending and liquidity purposes, IBRD borrows in the worldwide capital markets offering its securities to private and governmental buyers. IBRD issues debt instruments of varying maturities denominated in various currencies with both fixed and adjustable interest rates.
Effective July 1, 2008, IBRD fair values all its financial instruments in the borrowing portfolio with the changes in fair values accounted for through the Statement of Income. Prior to July 1, 2008, IBRD applied fair value measurement to certain qualifying debt instruments in its borrowings portfolio which were hybrid financial instruments, with the changes in fair value reported in net income, as allowed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments (FAS 155). All other borrowings were reported on the Balance Sheet at amortized cost. Issuance costs associated with a bond offering were deferred and amortized over the period during which the bond was outstanding. For presentation purposes amortization of discounts and premiums is included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the Statement of Income.
IBRD uses derivatives in its borrowing and liability management activities. In the borrowing portfolio, derivatives are used to take advantage of cost saving opportunities in non-target currencies in various capital markets. These derivatives are used to modify the interest rate and/or currency characteristics of the borrowing portfolio, and are carried at fair value in accordance with FAS 133.
The interest component of these derivatives is recognized as an adjustment to the borrowing cost over the life of the derivative contract and included in Interest under Borrowing Expenses on the Statement of Income.
Accounting for Derivatives: IBRD complies with the derivative accounting requirements of FAS 133. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments, as defined by these standards, be recorded on the
Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in fair values accounted for through the Statement of Income.
Valuation of Financial Instruments: Effective July 1, 2008, IBRD adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB’s) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157) which defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value, establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the quality of inputs used to measure fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements.
IBRD has an established and documented process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. Financial instruments for which quoted market prices are not readily available are valued based on discounted cash flow models. These models primarily use market-based or independently-sourced market parameters such as yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. To ensure that the valuations are appropriate where internally-developed models are used, IBRD has various controls in place, which include both internal and periodic external verification and review.
Summarized below are the techniques applied in determining the fair values of financial instruments.
Investment securities
As of June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, all of IBRD’s investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Where available, quoted market prices are used to determine the fair value of trading securities. Examples include some government securities, mutual funds, futures and exchange-traded equity securities. For instruments for which market quotations are not available, fair values are determined using model-based valuation techniques, whether internally-generated or vendor-supplied, that includes the standard discounted cash flow method using market observable inputs such as yield curves, credit spreads, and prepayment speeds. Unless quoted prices are available, money market instruments are reported at face value which approximates fair value.
Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, are reported at face value which approximates fair value.
Discount notes and plain vanilla bonds
Discount notes and non-structured bonds are valued using the standard discounted cash flow method which relies on market observable inputs such as yield curves, foreign exchange rates, basis spreads and funding spreads.
Structured bonds
Structured bonds issued by IBRD have coupon or repayment terms linked to the level or the performance of interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or commodities. The fair value of the structured bonds is derived using the discounted cash flow method based on estimated future pay-offs determined by applicable models and computation of embedded optionality such as caps, floors and calls. A wide range of industry standard models such as one factor Hull-White, Libor Market Model and Black-Scholes are used depending on the specific structure. These models incorporate market observable inputs, such as yield curves, foreign exchange rates, basis spreads, funding spreads, swaption volatilities, equity index volatilities and equity indices.
Derivative contracts
Derivative contracts include currency forward contracts, plain vanilla swaps and callable swaps linked to interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity indices. Plain vanilla swaps are valued using the standard discounted cash flow methods using market observable inputs such as yield curves, foreign exchange rates and basis spreads. For structured swaps, valuation models and inputs similar to the ones applicable to structured notes valuation apply.
Loans
As of June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, there was only one loan with an embedded derivative, which is fair valued on a matrix basis against the related bond.
Fair Value Hierarchy
FAS 157 establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy under which financial instruments are categorized based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), the next highest priority to observable market-based inputs or inputs that are corroborated by market data (Level 2) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data (Level 3). When the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the level within which the fair value measurement is categorized is based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety. Thus, a Level 3 fair value measurement of the instrument may include inputs that are observable (Levels 2) and unobservable (Level 3). Additionally, FAS 157 requires that the valuation techniques used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
Financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on the Balance Sheet are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as follows:
Level 1: Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2: Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or pricing models for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3: Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Accounting for Grant Expenses: IBRD recognizes an expense for grants, such as Contributions to Special Programs, and Board of Governors-approved transfers, when incurred.
Donor Receivables: Donors’ conditional promises to give are not recognized until the conditions to which they are subject are substantially met and the promise to give is considered unconditional.
Donors’ unconditional promises to give are recognized upon receipt as income, unless the donor specifies a third party beneficiary. In those cases IBRD is deemed to be acting as an intermediary agent and assets held on behalf of the specified beneficiaries are recognized with corresponding liabilities. If the contributions that IBRD receives can only be used for purposes specified by the donor, the proceeds are considered restricted until applied by IBRD for the donor-specified purposes. Donors’ promises to give which are expected to be collected within one year are recorded at face value, while promises expected to be collected over a period greater than one year are recorded initially at fair value, with subsequent measurement on an amortized cost basis.
Accounting and Reporting Developments
On June 30, 2007, IBRD adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (FAS158), which amended certain provisions of FAS 87, FAS 88,
FAS 106 and FAS 132(R). As required by FAS 158, IBRD recognized on the Balance Sheet the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Additionally, IBRD recognized actuarial gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arose during the period as part of Other Comprehensive Income and has recognized a portion of these as components of net periodic benefit cost based upon the current amortization and recognition requirements of FAS 87 and FAS 106. FAS 158 also eliminated the provisions of FAS 87 and FAS 106 that allowed plan assets and obligations to be measured as of a date not more than three months prior to the reporting entity’s balance sheet date. IBRD uses a June 30 measurement date for its pension and other post retirement benefit plans. Therefore, this change had no effect on IBRD's financial statements.
Effective July 1, 2008, IBRD adopted FAS 157.
FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. FAS 157 also requires that the valuation techniques used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
In conjunction with the adoption of FAS 157, IBRD adopted FASB’s Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159) effective July 1, 2008. FAS 159 provides an option for most financial assets and financial liabilities to be reported at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. Under FAS 159’s transition provisions, IBRD has elected to report at fair value all financial instruments in the borrowings portfolio previously reported at amortized cost. The financial impact of IBRD’s adoption of FAS 159 is discussed further in Note O—Fair Value of Financial Instruments. After the initial adoption, the election is made at the acquisition of a financial asset, or a financial liability and is irrevocable. IBRD’s policy from July 1, 2008 onwards is to designate all new financial instruments in the borrowings portfolio at fair value with changes recognized in earnings. Additionally, any other new financial instruments having embedded derivatives that require bifurcation may also be designated at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
In December 2008, IBRD implemented FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities. The FSP increases disclosure requirements for public companies and is effective for reporting periods (interim and annual) that ended after December 15, 2008. The application of this FSP did not have a material impact on IBRD’s June 30, 2009 financial statements.
In December 2008, FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. This FSP amends FAS 132 (R), Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, to provide additional guidance on an employer’s disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. Among other things, this FSP requires employers to annually disclose information about fair value measurements of plan assets that are similar to the disclosures about fair value measurements required by FAS 157. This FSP is first applicable to IBRD’s annual financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and will result in additional disclosures being made in IBRD’s financial statements.
Effective March 31, 2009, IBRD adopted FASB's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (FAS 161). FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities (see Note F—Derivative Instruments).
In April 2009, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly. This FSP provides guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with FAS 157 when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and on the process for identifying circumstances that a transaction is not orderly. The FSP is applicable prospectively to the financial statements for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The application of this FSP did not have a material impact on IBRD’s June 30, 2009 financial statements.
In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 165,
Subsequent Events (FAS 165). This standard establishes principles and requirements for evaluating and reporting subsequent events. In particular, it sets forth; the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential
recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the disclosures related to events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date. The application of this standard resulted in additional disclosures in IBRD’s June 30, 2009 financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No.140 (FAS 166). This standard addresses the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about transfers of financial assets including; the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial performance, and cash flows; and a transferor’s continuing involvement in transferred assets. This standard is effective for IBRD’s interim and annual reporting periods beginning July 1, 2010. IBRD is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No.46(R) (FAS 167). This standard amends certain requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities relating, to enterprises involved with variable interest entities. This standard is effective for IBRD’s interim and annual reporting periods beginning July 1, 2010. IBRD is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
NOTE B—CAPITAL STOCK, RESTRICTED CURRENCIES, MAINTENANCE OF VALUE, AND MEMBERSHIP
Capital Stock: At June 30, 2009, IBRD’s capital comprised 1,581,724 authorized shares (1,581,724 shares—June 30, 2008), of which 1,574,315 shares (1,573,349 shares—June 30, 2008) had been subscribed. Each share has a par value of 0.1 million 1974 SDRs, valued at the rate of $1.20635 per 1974 SDR. Of the subscribed capital, $11,491 million ($11,486 million—June 30, 2008) has been paid in, and the remaining $178,427 million ($178,315 million—June 30, 2008) is subject to call only when required to meet the obligations of IBRD created by borrowing or guaranteeing loans.
Under IBRD’s Articles of Agreement, in the event a member withdraws from IBRD, the withdrawing member is entitled to receive the value of its shares payable to the extent the member does not have any outstanding obligations to IBRD. IBRD’s Articles
of Agreement also state that the former member has continuing obligations to IBRD after withdrawal. Specifically, the former member remains fully liable for its entire capital subscription, including both the previously paid-in portion and the callable portion, so long as any part of the loans or guarantees contracted before it ceased to be a member are outstanding.
On June 29, 2009 The Republic of Kosovo became the 186th member of IBRD.
Currencies Subject to Restrictions: A portion of capital subscriptions paid in to IBRD has been paid in the local currencies of the members. These amounts, referred to as restricted currencies, are usable by IBRD in its lending and investing operations, only with the consent of the respective members, and for administrative expenses.
Deferred Amounts To Maintain the Value of Currency Holdings
The following table summarizes the deferred amounts to maintain the value of currency holdings classified as a component of equity:
Net deferred MOV payable relates to restricted currencies invested, swapped, or loaned to members by IBRD or through IFC. These amounts become payable by IBRD on the same terms as other MOV obligations on cash receipt of the settlement from these instruments. MOV receivable in arrears represents receivables for countries that have amounts outstanding for two years or more. Although these amounts are used to reduce equity, IBRD still considers these MOV in arrears as obligations due from the members concerned. Deferred demand obligations relate to notes that are due on demand only after IBRD's callable capital has been entirely called pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 (a) of the Articles of Agreement.
NOTE C—INVESTMENTS
As part of its overall portfolio management strategy, IBRD invests in government and agency obligations, time deposits, corporate and asset-backed securities, repurchase agreements, securities loans, resale agreements and related financial derivatives including futures, currency swaps (including currency forward contracts), interest rate swaps, options and swaptions.
For equity securities, IBRD may invest in any marketable equity security provided that the security is included in the Russell 3000 Index or MSCI
World, ex-US Index, or similar indices, as well as any other securities or financial instruments (including commingled or mutual funds and Exchange Traded Funds) that are typically used by asset management firms or other financial institutions in portfolios that seek to track all or part of these indices.
For government and agency obligations, IBRD may only invest in obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by governments of countries with a minimum credit rating of AA-; however, if such obligations are denominated in the home currency of the issuer, no rating is required. IBRD may only invest in obligations issued by an agency or instrumentality of a government of a member country, a multilateral organization or any other official entity other than the government of a member country, with a minimum credit rating of AA-. For corporate and asset-backed securities, IBRD may only invest in securities with a AAA credit rating.
Time deposits include certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances and other obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by banks or other financial institutions. IBRD may only invest in time deposits issued or guaranteed by financial institutions whose senior debt securities are rated at least A-.
With respect to futures and options, IBRD generally closes out most open positions prior to expiration. Futures are settled on a daily basis. For options, IBRD only invests in exchange-traded options.
IBRD does not write uncovered option contracts as part of its investment portfolio strategy.
As of June 30, 2009 there were $2 million of short sales included in Payable for investment securities purchased on the Balance Sheet (none as of June 30, 2008).
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, IBRD had included $64 million of unrealized losses in income (unrealized gains of $99 million—June 30, 2008 and unrealized gains of $24 million—June 30, 2007).
Collateral Arrangements
IBRD may engage in securities lending and repurchases, against adequate collateral, as well as securities borrowing and reverse repurchases (resales) of government and agency obligations, and corporate and asset-backed securities. Transfers of securities by IBRD to counterparties are not
accounted for as sales as the accounting criteria for the treatment as a sale have not been met. These securities must be available to meet IBRD's obligation to counterparties. The following is a summary of the carrying amount of the securities transferred under repurchase or securities lending agreements, and the related liabilities:
IBRD receives collateral in connection with resale agreements as well as swap agreements. This collateral serves to mitigate IBRD's exposure to credit risk.
In the case of resale agreements, IBRD receives collateral in the form of liquid securities and is permitted to repledge these securities. While these transactions are legally considered to be true
purchases and sales, the securities received are not recorded on IBRD’s Balance Sheet as the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale have not been met. As of June 30, 2009, IBRD had received securities with a fair value of $34 million ($1,439 million—June 30, 2008). None of these securities had been transferred under repurchase or security lending agreements as of that date ($107 million— June 30, 2008).
The $3,455 million of collateral repledged by IBRD as of June 30, 2008 was transferred under securities lending agreements and IBRD received collateral in the form of liquid securities and cash. The cash collateral received was subsequently invested in money market and other liquid financial instruments, which are included under Investments—Trading and Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements on
the Balance Sheet. The obligation to return this cash collateral received is included under Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements, Securities Lent Under Securities Lending Agreements, and Payable for Cash Collateral Received on the Balance Sheet.
NOTE G—CREDIT RISK
Country Credit Risk: This risk includes potential losses arising from protracted arrears on payments from borrowers for loans, guarantees or related derivatives. IBRD manages country credit risk through individual country exposure limits according to creditworthiness. These exposure limits are tied to performance on macroeconomic and structural policies. In addition, IBRD establishes absolute limits on the share of outstanding loans to any individual borrower. The country credit risk is further managed by financial incentives such as loan terms that give borrowers self-interest in IBRD’s continued strong intermediation capacity. Collectability risk is covered by the accumulated provision for losses on loans and guarantees. IBRD also uses a simulation model to assess the adequacy of its equity including reserves in case a major borrower, or group of borrowers, stops servicing its loans for an extended period of time.
Commercial Credit Risk: For the purpose of risk management, IBRD is party to a variety of financial instruments, certain of which involve elements of credit risk. Credit risk exposure represents the maximum potential loss due to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties under the terms of the contracts. For all securities,
IBRD limits trading to a list of authorized dealers and counterparties. Credit risk is controlled through application of eligibility criteria and volume limits for transactions with individual counterparties and through the use of mark-to-market collateral arrangements for swap transactions. IBRD may require collateral in the form of cash or other approved liquid securities from individual counterparties in order to mitigate its credit exposure. For details of the collateral received in connection with swap agreements see Note C— Investments.
IBRD has entered into master derivatives agreements which contain legally enforceable closeout netting provisions. These agreements may further reduce the gross credit risk exposure related to the swaps shown below. Credit risk with financial assets subject to a master derivatives arrangement is further reduced under these agreements to the extent that payments and receipts with the counterparty are netted at settlement. The reduction in exposure as a result of these netting provisions can vary as additional transactions are entered into under these agreements. The extent of the reduction in exposure may therefore change substantially within a short period of time following the balance sheet date.
IBRD makes net income allocation decisions on the basis of reported net income, adjusted to exclude the fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net, restricted externally-financed outputs income, adjustments relating to the LTIP, and Board of Governors-Approved Transfers, and after considering the allocation to the pension reserve.
On August 7, 2008, the Executive Directors approved the allocation of $811 million of the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 to the General Reserve and $117 million to the Pension Reserve.
On September 9, 2008, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved the retention of $115 million as Surplus from the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, and the immediate transfer of that
amount to the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund.
On October 13, 2008, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved the immediate transfer of $583 million to IDA, an affiliated organization and the retention of $635 million as Surplus from the net income earned in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Additionally, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved the transfer of $40 million from Surplus, by way of grant, to the Kosovo Sustainable Employment Development Trust Fund.
Subsequent event: On July 10, 2009, IBRD’s Board of Governors approved the immediate transfer of $55 million from Surplus to the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank.
There were no amounts payable for the transfers approved by the Board of Governors at June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008.Transfers approved during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007, are included in the following table.
In millions of U.S. dollars__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
______________Fiscal Years Ended June 30,________________
NOTE I—ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL PROGRAMS, AND OTHER INCOME
Administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 are net of the share of administrative expenses allocated to IDA of $975 million ($888 million—June 30, 2008, and $976 million—June 30, 2007). The administrative expenses allocated to IDA are net of fees received for joint administration of certain external funds by IBRD and IDA (Note J— Management of External Funds and Other Services). The allocation of expenses between IBRD and IDA is based on an agreed cost sharing formula that
reflects the administrative costs of service delivery to countries that are eligible for lending from IBRD and IDA.
Contributions to special programs represent grants for agricultural research, and other developmental activities.
Other income primarily consists of service fee revenue and net income from asset/liability derivatives. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, net income from asset/liability derivatives totaled $246 million (net of $10 million —June 30, 2008).
At June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, IBRD had the following (payables to) receivables from its affiliated organizations with regard to administrative services and pension and other postretirement benefits.
The (payables) receivables balances to (from) these affiliated organizations are reported in the Balance Sheet as follows:
Reported as:
Receivable for Administrative Services	Other Assets - Miscellaneous
Payable for Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits_______________Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities______________
In addition, IBRD also had amounts receivable from and payable to IDA in connection with derivative transactions relating to the swap intermediation services provided by IBRD to IDA. See Note F— Derivative Instruments for more details.
NOTE J—MANAGEMENT OF EXTERNAL FUNDS AND OTHER SERVICES
Trust Funds
IBRD, alone or jointly with one or more of its affiliated organizations, administers on behalf of donors, including members, their agencies and other entities, funds restricted for specific uses in accordance with administration agreements with donors. Specified uses could include, for example, co-financing of IBRD lending projects, debt reduction operations, technical assistance including feasibility studies and project preparation, global and regional programs, and research and training programs. These funds are held in trust with IBRD and/or IDA, and are held in a separate investment portfolio which is not commingled with IBRD's funds, nor are they included in the assets of IBRD.
Trust fund execution may be carried out in one of two ways: Recipient-executed or IBRD-executed.
Recipient-executed trust funds involve activities carried out by a recipient third-party “executing agency”. IBRD enters into agreements with and disburses funds to those recipients, who then
exercise spending authority to meet the objectives and comply with terms stipulated in the agreements.
IBRD-executed trust funds involve IBRD execution of activities as described in relevant administration agreements with donors which define the terms and conditions for use of the funds. Spending authority is exercised by IBRD, subject to any restrictions contained in the administration agreements. The executing agency services provided by IBRD vary and include for example, activity preparation, analytical and advisory activities and project-related activities, including procurement of goods and services.
In some trust funds, execution is allocated between Recipient-executed and IBRD-executed portions. Decisions on assignment of funding resources between the two types of execution may be made on an ongoing basis; therefore the execution of a portion of these available resources may not yet be assigned.
IBRD also acts as intermediary to provide specific administrative or financial services with a limited fiduciary or operational role. These arrangements include, for example, administration of debt service trust funds, financial intermediation and other more specialized limited funds management roles. Funds are held and disbursed in accordance with instructions from donors or, in some cases, external governance structure or body operating on behalf of donors.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, IBRD, as an executing agency, disbursed $209 million ($184 million—June 30, 2008) of trust fund program funds.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, IBRD recognized $23 million ($21 million—June 30, 2008 and $17 million—June 30, 2007) as fees for administering trust funds. These fees have been recorded as Other Income. Fees collected by trust funds from donor contributions but not yet earned by IBRD totaling $61 million at June 30, 2009 ($71 million—June 30, 2008) are included in Other Assets (Miscellaneous) and in Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities, correspondingly, on the Balance Sheet.
Investment Management Services
IBRD offers treasury and investment management services to affiliated and non-affiliated organizations. Under these arrangements, IBRD is responsible for managing investment account assets on behalf of these institutions, and in return receives a quarterly fee based on the average value of the portfolios.
In addition, IBRD offers asset management and technical advisory services to central banks of member countries, under the Reserves Advisory and Management Program, for capacity building and other development purposes and receives a fee for these services.
The fee income from all of these investment management activities in the amount of $18 million ($14 million —June 30, 2008) is included in service fee revenues described in Note I—Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Programs, and Other Income.
At June 30, 2009, the assets managed under these agreements had a value of $20,054 million ($17,767 million—June 30, 2008). These funds are not included in the assets of IBRD.
Other Services
Donors to the Advance Market Commitment for Pneumococcal Vaccines Initiative (AMC) have provided IBRD with commitments to give $1.5 billion over a ten year period, with GAVI Alliance (GAVI) as the named beneficiary. Some of these grants are payable on specified due dates and are classified as unconditional while others are payable on demand when needed and are classified as conditional for accounting purposes. As of June 30,
2009,	the unconditional assets comprise $212 million in cash and investments, and receivables at a net carrying value of $550 million. These assets along with the corresponding liabilities are included in the IBRD’s Balance Sheet. The assets will be drawn down by GAVI in accordance with the terms of the AMC which require that the funds be used to make payments for qualifying vaccines. In addition, should a donor fail to pay, IBRD has committed to pay the shortfall. For this commitment, IBRD will charge an annual 30 basis point premium on outstanding grant payments not yet paid by AMC donors. IBRD will also charge an annual service fee based on the related administrative and financial management costs incurred to support the program. IBRD will be entitled to collect fees charged from investment income earned on AMC - related investment assets, to the extent earnings have accumulated. Should fees charged exceed investment income earned, one donor has agreed to pay IBRD up to $13 million of any deficit.
Donor Receivables are reported in Other Assets -Miscellaneous, with the corresponding payables reflected in Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities. Fee income recognized from these arrangements is included in Other Income. Amounts recorded for the non-contingent and contingent obligations arising from IBRD’s obligation to pay in the event of a donor default are included in Note D—Loans and Guarantees.
NOTE K—PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
IBRD, IFC and MIGA participate in a defined benefit SRP, a Retired Staff Benefits Plan (RSBP) and a Post-Employment Benefits Plan (PEBP) that cover substantially all of their staff members.
The SRP provides regular pension benefits and includes a cash balance plan. The RSBP provides certain health and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The PEBP provides certain pension benefits administered outside the SRP.
IBRD uses a June 30 measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
The amounts presented below reflect IBRD’s respective share of the costs, assets and liabilities of the plans.
All costs, assets and liabilities associated with these plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC, and MIGA based upon their employees’ respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are then shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. IDA, IFC and MIGA reimburse IBRD for their proportionate share of any contributions made to these plans by IBRD. Contributions to these plans are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The following table summarizes the benefit costs associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, June 30, 2008, and June 30, 2007:
IDA’s share of the net periodic pension income/cost is included as a payable to/receivable from IDA in Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
The expenses for the SRP, RSBP and PEBP are included in Administrative Expenses. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, June 30, 2008, and June 30, 2007, expenses (income) for these plans of $34 million, $3 million and $16 million, respectively, were allocated to IFC, and $(1) million, $(2) million and $0.1 million, respectively, were allocated to MIGA.
The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets, and funded status associated with the SRP, RSBP, and PEBP for IBRD and IDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, and June 30, 2008. Since the assets for the PEBP are not held in an irrevocable trust separate from the assets of IBRD, they do not qualify for off-balance sheet accounting and are therefore included in IBRD's investment portfolio. The assets of the PEBP are invested in fixed income instruments.
The $325 million overfunded status relating to SRP at June 30, 2009 ($1,853 million—June 30, 2008) is included in Assets under retirement benefits plans on theBalance Sheet. The $267 million and $395 million underfunded status relating to RSBP and PEBP, respectively are reported under Liabilities under retirement benefits plans on the Balance Sheet.
Pension and other postretirement benefits attributable to IDA of $1,659 million ($1,611 million—June 30, 2008) is included in Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities on the Balance Sheet (see Note I—Administrative Expenses, Contributions to Special Program, and Other Income).
Assumptions
The actuarial assumptions used are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management’s best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. Changes in these assumptions will impact future benefit costs and obligations.
The expected long-term rate of return for the SRP assets is a weighted average of the expected longterm (10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the portfolio allocation. Asset class returns are developed using a forward-looking building block approach and are not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of expected inflation, real
bond yield, and risk premium/spread (as appropriate). Other asset class returns are derived from their relationship to equity and bond markets. The expected long-term rate of return for the RSBP is computed using procedures similar to those used for the SRP. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation is selected by reference to the year-end AAA and AA corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses occur when actual results are different from expected results. Amortization of these unrecognized gains and losses will be included in income if, at the beginning of the fiscal year, they exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. If required, the unrecognized gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service lives of the employee group.
The medical cost trend rate can significantly affect the reported postretirement benefit income or costs and benefit obligations for the RSBP. The following table shows the effects of a one-percentage-point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate:
Investment Strategy
The investment policy for the SRP and the RSBP is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective plan’s needs and goals, using a global diversified portfolio of various asset classes. Specifically, the long-term asset allocation is based on an analysis that incorporates expected returns by asset class as well as volatilities and correlations across asset classes and the liability profile of the respective plans, especially in the case of the SRP. This analysis also provides estimates of potential future contributions and future asset and liability balances. In February 2009 the Pension
Finance Committee approved an interim strategic asset allocation (reflected in the table below) for the RSBP based on the asset allocation as of December
2008,	pending resumption of work on a detailed strategic asset allocation review after market conditions stabilize in the wake of the recent global financial crisis. Plan assets are managed by external investment managers and monitored by IBRD’s pension and endowments department. The pension plan assets are invested in diversified portfolios of public equity, fixed income, and alternative investments.
The following table presents the asset allocation at June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008 and the respective target allocation by asset category for the SRP and RSRP:
In percent
Estimated Future Benefits Payments
The following table shows the benefit payments expected to be paid in each of the next five years and subsequent five years. The expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation at June 30, 2009:
In millions of U.S. dollars_______________________________________________________________________________________________
SRP ___________________RSBP_________________ PEBP
Before Medicare Medicare Part D
Expected Contributions
IBRD’s contribution to the SRP and RSBP varies from year to year, as determined by the Pension Finance Committee, which bases its judgement on the results of annual actuarial valuations of the
assets and liabilities of the SRP and RSBP. The best estimate of the amount of contributions expected to be paid to the SRP and RSBP for IBRD and IDA during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009 is $149 million and $54 million, respectively.
Based on an evaluation of IBRD’s operations, management has determined that IBRD has only one reportable segment since IBRD does not manage its operations by allocating resources based on a determination of the contribution to net income from individual borrowers.
The following table presents IBRD’s loan outstanding balances and associated loan income, by geographic region, as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008:
In millions of U.S. dollars
a.	Represents loans to IFC, an affiliated organization.
a.	The Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and subsequent reclassification to net income relates to the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000.
cumulative effects of a change in accounting principle related to the implementation of FAS 133, currency translation adjustments, pension-related items, and net income. These items are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, loans to two countries generated in excess of 10 percent of loan income; this amounted to $394 million and $398 million respectively. Loan income comprises interest, commitment fees, loan origination fees and prepayment premia, net of waivers.
a.	The Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and subsequent reclassification to net income relates to the adoption of FAS 133 on July 1, 2000.
NOTE N—FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS ON NON-TRADING PORTFOLIOS, NET
On July 1, 2000, IBRD adopted FAS 133. This standard requires that derivative instruments, as defined by FAS 133, be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. IBRD has not defined any qualifying hedging relationships under this standard.
Prior to the adoption of FAS 133, the derivative instruments in the borrowing portfolio were recorded using synthetic accounting. The derivative instruments in the investment portfolio were, and continue to be, recorded at fair value in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Upon adoption of FAS 133, $500 million was reported in other comprehensive income representing the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of those derivatives that were hedging a cash flow exposure prior to the initial application of FAS 133. This amount is being
reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings.
Any gains or losses on those borrowings for which a fair value exposure was being hedged prior to adoption of FAS 133 were recorded in income at the time of implementation, and were offset by the fair value adjustments on the related derivative instruments. The fair value adjustments on those bonds are being amortized into earnings over the remaining lives of the related bonds, through the Fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net in the Statement of Income.
Effective July 1, 2008, IBRD carries all financial instruments in its borrowings portfolio at fair value, with changes in fair values accounted for through earnings. Prior to this date, only qualifying hybrid debt instruments in the borrowings portfolio were carried at fair value.
The following table reflects the components of the fair value adjustment on non-trading portfolios, net for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, June 30, 2008, and June 30, 2007.
In millions of U.S. dollars
experienced deterioration in its credit spreads as a	was a net gain of $2,852 million, determined using
result of the current financial crisis. The estimated	observable changes in IBRD's credit spreads.
financial effect of this deterioration on the fair value of
Section 1: OVERVIEW
International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established in 1960 and is owned by its member countries. Since its inception IDA has played a pivotal role in the global aid architecture and is the largest multilateral channel for providing concessional financing to the world’s poorest countries in their efforts to boost economic growth, lower poverty and improve the living conditions of people. Given its poverty focus, IDA directs a large share of its resources to countries where people earn less than two dollars a day.
IDA pursues these goals by providing concessional development credits, grants and guarantees to its borrowing member countries to help meet their development needs. It also participates in programs and initiatives including debt relief, and provides technical assistance and other advisory services to support poverty reduction.
Member contributions, internal resources (see Section 5.3 Internal Resources), and transfers from affiliated organizations, fund IDA’s lending and grant making operations. As a result IDA does not borrow from the capital markets.
Commitment Authority and Cash Flows
IDA is a revolving concessional financing window with regular three-year replenishments by donors. The resources available to IDA for funding its grant financing, lending and guarantee activities constitute its commitment authority, which is measured in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). As commitments for development credits and grants are approved during the three year replenishment period, the commitment authority is drawn down. These committed funds are then disbursed over an extended period, averaging nine years.
The Fifteenth Replenishment of IDA (IDA15) is the current replenishment and runs from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2011 with 45 donor governments contributing. The IDA15 commitment authority framework is SDR 27.8 billion, of which SDR 16.5 billion is funded by new donor contributions, SDR
4.1	billion from donors’ compensation for Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), SDR 4.8 billion from internal resources including a carryover from previous replenishments, and the remaining SDR 2.4 billion from anticipated transfers from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). Of the total IDA15 commitment authority framework, SDR 8.4 billion was committed as of June 30, 2009.
IDA needs to have sufficient funds available to disburse approved development credits and grants.
Cash inflows consist of four primary components:
(i)	encashment of contributions provided by donor countries; (ii) transfers from IBRD’s net income and grants from IFC’s retained earnings; (iii) credit reflows, including principal repayments and income from development credits and guarantees; and (iv) investment income on liquid assets. Cash outflows have two primary components: (i) disbursements of approved credits and grants; and (ii) payments to IBRD for IDA’s allocated share of the combined administrative expenses.
IDA faces timing mismatches between cash receipts from donors and borrowers and disbursements of new credits and grants. To manage these timing mismatches between cash inflows and outflows and to ensure optimal use of development resources,
IDA employs a number of financial practices, namely:
•	Donor funds are encashed over time so as to match the nine-year average disbursement profile of development credits and grants.
•	Provision of incentives to donors for early encashments.
•	Expected principal repayments on disbursed and outstanding credits are considered as a source of commitment authority.
•	Projected future investment income is committed at the beginning of each replenishment period.
•	Total income from credits and guarantees is expected to cover administrative expenses in a given year.
•	Use of various hedging strategies to minimize currency mismatches of cashflows.
Basis of Reporting
IDA’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
Members’ subscriptions and contributions are recorded on the balance sheet since they confer an equity participation in the net assets of IDA through voting rights. Subscriptions and contributions can be used to fund development grants and the costs of providing debt relief under Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative and MDRI. Under U.S. GAAP, development grants and adjustments to the accumulated provision for debt relief and losses on development credits and guarantees are recorded as a charge against or addition to income.
This accounting under U.S. GAAP creates an asymmetry in IDA’s Statement of Income to the extent that subscriptions and contributions fund
development grants and are used to bear the costs of debt relief. This asymmetry has resulted in IDA recording losses in its income statement over the years. These losses have had no impact on the financial and operational management of IDA at any point in time. IDA’s financial and operational management is driven by:
•	its lending capacity as determined by the commitment authority of the particular replenishment effective at that time (see Section 5 Financial Resources); and
•	having sufficient liquidity available on a timely basis in the amount needed to meet future cash flow requirements, including disbursements for credits, grants, and administrative expenses (see Section 7 Management of Liquid Asset Holdings).
IDA uses currency forward contracts to hedge its exposure to any potential loss of value of contributions in national currencies vis-a-vis the SDR pledged by donors at the start of the replenishment. The translation adjustment on the non-functional currencies of these forward contracts is reported in the income statement. However the economic offset, the change in value of donor pledges, is not reported in IDA’s financial statements, since donor pledges do not meet the definition of assets.
Section 2: FINANCIAL RESULTS
2.1	Current Economic Conditions
IDA has had only limited exposure to the current market conditions since its liquidity portfolio had minimal exposure to asset classes which suffered
during the economic crises and it does not borrow from the capital markets. As a result, IDA’s lending capacity, as determined by its commitment authority Framework, has not been affected.
2.2	Net Income (Loss)
Table 1 Condensed Statement of Income provides a comparison of the main sources of income and expenses for the two years under review.
FY2009 net income reflects an increase of $2,133 million over that of FY2008. The factors contributing to this increase are discussed below.
Income from development credits and guarantees in FY2009 declined by $120 million in comparison with FY2008. This was primarily due to credits outstanding to three member countries being restored to accrual status in FY2008, and the resultant recognition of income accreted in prior years’ being recognized in FY2008. In addition, commitment charges were reduced from 10 basis points in FY2008 to nil in FY2009.
IDA’s investment portfolio has a duration which is determined based on its liquidity management strategy. The majority of the portfolio (Tranche 1) is invested to immunize contracted future net cashflow requirements, which generally extend up to nine years at the start of a replenishment. The length of this duration position makes IDA’s investment portfolio’s mark-to-market value sensitive to interest rate movements. IDA's investment gains/losses are economically offset by increases/decreases in the present value of IDA's future net cashflow requirements.
During FY2009, there were significant downward shifts in U.S. dollar, euro and British pound sterling interest rates compared to FY2008, resulting in significant mark-to-market gains which contributed to the increase in investment income of $493 million over the previous year.
During FY2009, IDA received $583 million as transfers from IBRD and $450 million as grants from IFC. The grants from IFC are to be used as part of IDA15 resources in furtherance of IFC’s purposes. During FY2008, IDA received $600 million from IBRD and $500 million as grants from IFC. An additional amount of $4 million was received from trust funds in both years.
Administrative expenses increased by $87 million over the prior year primarily due to increases in staff costs including pension benefit costs.
The $576 million decrease in grant expenses over the prior year was mainly due to the pre-arrears clearance grants to Liberia and Cote d’Ivoire in FY2008.
FY2009 saw an increase in the release of provision for debt relief and for losses on credits and guarantees of $463 million compared to FY2008.
The main driver of this increase was Nepal’s decision in February 2009 not to seek eligibility under the HIPC Debt Relief Initiative.
The increase in non-functional currency translation gains of $853 million reported during FY2009 was due to the impact of depreciation of national currencies of donors against the U.S. dollar on derivative liabilities relating to hedges of donor commitments. These hedges were entered into in May 2008.
2.3	Financing Operations
A summary of the financing operations for the last three fiscal years is included in Table 2.
Commitments of development credits and grants in FY2009 increased by $2,806 (25%) million over those in FY2008. In terms of regional focus, Africa and South Asia together account for 86% of the FY2009 commitments (see Chart 1).
Net disbursements increased by $32 million over the same period. In FY2008 net disbursements were higher than normal due to pre-arrears clearance grants to Liberia and Cote d’Ivoire in FY2008.
a.	FY2009 commitments of credits and grants include HIPC grants totaling $46 million.
Section 3: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
3.1	Eligibility criteria
Two basic criteria govern a country’s eligibility for IDA resources: relative poverty defined as gross national income (GNI) per capita below an established threshold (updated annually), and lack of creditworthiness to borrow on market terms and therefore, a need for concessional resources. Currently, seventy-nine countries are eligible to borrow from IDA. Of these, sixty-five are not considered sufficiently creditworthy to borrow from
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and are referred to as “IDA only” countries. The remaining fourteen are deemed to have limited IBRD creditworthiness. These latter countries may receive both IDA and IBRD financing and are referred to as “blend” countries. With a few exceptions, IDA’s eligibility cutoff for FY2009 was a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) in 2007 of $1,095 (the “operational cutoff’). The FY2010 operational cutoff has been set at $1,135.
3.2	Financing Principles
IDA’s financing operations are required to conform to the general principles derived from its Articles. These principles (which are described in Box 1), taken together, seek to ensure that IDA financing is made to member countries for financially and economically sound purposes to which those countries have assigned high development priority, and that the financing is utilized as intended. Within the scope permitted by the Articles, application of these principles must be developed and adjusted in light of experience and changing conditions.
Box 1: Financing Principles_____________________________________________________________________________________________
(i)	IDA may provide financing in the form of development credits, grants and guarantees directly to its members, public or private entities and regional or public international organizations.
(ii)	IDA’s financing is designed to promote economic development, increase productivity and thus raise standards of living in its member countries. Investment projects financed by IDA are required to meet IDA's standards for technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental soundness. Specific provisions apply to development policy financing, including the treatment of the macroeconomic framework, poverty and social impact, environment, forests and other natural resources.
(iii)	Decisions to approve financing are based upon, among other things, studies by IDA of a member country's economic structure, including assessments of its resources and ability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to meet debt-service obligations.
(iv)	IDA must be satisfied that in the prevailing market conditions (taking into account the member's overall external financing requirements), the borrower would be unable to obtain financing under conditions which, in the opinion of IDA, are reasonable for the borrower. This would include loans made by private sources or IBRD.
(v)	The use of financing proceeds is supervised. IDA makes arrangements intended to ensure that funds provided are used only for authorized purposes and, where relevant, with due attention to considerations of cost-effectiveness. This policy is enforced primarily by requiring borrowers (a) to submit documentation establishing, to IDA’s satisfaction, that the expenditures financed with the proceeds of development credits or grants are made in conformity with the applicable financing agreements, and (b) to maximize competition in the procurement of goods and services by using, wherever possible, international competitive bidding procedures or, when it is not appropriate, other procedures that ensure maximum economy and efficiency. In addition, under pilot programs approved by the Executive Directors, IDA considers the use of borrower country procurement, and environmental and social safeguard systems in selected operations where these systems are assessed by IDA as being equivalent to IDA's systems and where the borrower's policies and procedures, implementation practices, track record, fiduciary and safeguard risks and capacity are considered acceptable to IDA.
3.3	Financing Cycles
The process of identifying and appraising a project and approving and disbursing the funds often extends over several years. After appraisal of a project by staff, with certain exceptions, IDA’s Executive Directors must approve each credit or grant. Disbursements are subject to the fulfillment of conditions set out in the credit or grant agreement. During implementation of IDA supported operations, staff review progress, monitor compliance with IDA policies, and assist in resolving any problems that may arise. An independent unit, the Independent Evaluations Group, assesses the extent to which operations have met their major objectives, and these evaluations are reported directly to the Executive Directors. However, on numerous occasions, IDA has shortened the preparation and approval cycle in response to emergency situations, such as natural disasters and financial crises. The establishment of IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility (see Section 4.6 Financial Crisis Response Fast Track Facility) is an example.
3.4	Financing Categories
IDA’s financing falls into one of two categories -investment lending or development policy lending. Investment lending is generally used to finance goods, works, and services in support of economic and social development projects in a broad range of sectors. In contrast, development policy lending provides quick disbursing credits or grants to members with external financing needs to support structural reforms in a sector or the economy as a whole. They support the policy and institutional changes needed to create an environment conducive to sustained and equitable growth. The share of investment lending has remained fairly consistent at between 74% in FY2006 and 80% in FY2009 as illustrated in Chart 2.
Chart 2: Share of Lending Categories
Percentage	□ Development Policy
Share	□
evolution of the country-based development model which recognizes recipient country governments as the most important stakeholder, brings a clearer focus on poverty reduction, emphasizes national ownership of the development effort, and creates accountability for development results. Alignment with the PRS is the cornerstone of IDA’s support to the country-based development model and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) provides an anchor for IDA’s support at the country level.
The CAS facilitates alignment with country priorities by taking into account national development programs as well as harmonization with other donors and World Bank Group activities, thereby maximizing impact. The CAS also makes it possible for IDA’s program to reconcile global concerns and national priorities at the country level. Finally, IDA provides support for the strengthening of national capacities, including those for environmental and social safeguards, as well as public financial management and procurement.
Section 4: PRODUCTS AND PROGRAMS
The financial terms of IDA’s products are described in detail below.
4.1	Development Credits
Currencies
Currently all development credits approved are denominated in SDRs. Before August 1, 1980, IDA credits were denominated in U.S. dollars. Principal payments and service and commitment charges are due in the currency specified in the Development Credit Agreement in an amount equivalent to the SDRs required under the agreement.
Charges on development credits
IDA’s policy is to maintain its charges (service and commitment charges) at a level that will cover its projected administrative expenses.
Service Charges. A service charge is levied on the principal amount disbursed and outstanding on all development credits, regardless of eligibility by repayment terms, at the rate of 0.75 percent per annum, to cover the administrative expenses of IDA.
Interest. Interest is charged only on hard-term credits. The interest charged is more concessional than the prevailing IBRD lending rate and is set at 200 basis points below the equivalent IBRD lending rate in fixed-rate terms. The actual rate is determined on an annual basis, prior to the start of each fiscal year and applies for all hard-term IDA credits approved during a fiscal year. For FY2009 the interest rate was 3.2 percent. For FY2010 the interest rate is set at 3.52 percent.
Commitment Charge. A commitment charge is payable on the undisbursed amount of the development credit. The Executive Directors set the commitment charge at the beginning of each fiscal year. Commitment charges are set having regard to the extent that service charges, adjusted to include income forgone from development credits forgiven under HIPC and MDRI, and income forgone as a result of providing grant financing (instead of development credits), cover administrative expenses. For FY2010, IDA’s Executive Directors have retained the commitment charge at zero. Table 3 shows the history of IDA commitment charges on undisbursed development credits.
Table 3: Commitment Charges on Credits
Repayment Terms
Development credits approved through June 30,
1987 have a final maturity of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years. IDA credits approved after that date also have a grace period of 10 years but the final maturity and repayment schedule depend on whether the borrower is classified as IDA-only or blend. Table 4 provides a summary of the repayment terms of development credits based on eligibility.
4.2	Development Grants
Commitment Authority for andfunding of Grants.
Only funds that are provided with specific grant authorization may be used to finance IDA grants.1 Beginning with the transfer out of IBRD’s FY1997 net income, funds received from IBRD as net income transfers have included explicit authority that the funding could be used for grants. Recent replenishment resolutions have authorized the financing of grants from donor resources. In addition, all grants received from IFC’s retained earnings have also included the explicit authorization that IDA could use such funding for grants.
Commitment charges on the undisbursed balances of grants are set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA. From FY2003 through FY2010, IDA’s commitment charge on the undisbursed balances of grants has been set at zero.
Allocation of Grants
Grants in IDA15 are available solely for IDA-only countries. The amount available for each country is a function of the country’s performance-based IDA allocation (see Section 6 Allocations of Resources), and its eligibility for grants is based on an assessment of the risk of debt distress. Countries with low risk of debt distress receive 100 percent of their IDA allocation as development credits. Countries with medium risk of debt distress receive 50 percent of their IDA allocation as development credits, and the other 50 percent as grants.
Countries with high risk of debt distress will receive 100 percent of their allocation in the form of grants.
During FY2009, the first year of IDA15, total grants approved were $2,575 million representing 18% of the total commitments of credits and grants of $14,041 million.
4.3	Partial Risk Guarantees
In FY2009, IDA’s Executive Directors approved the mainstreaming of the guarantees program, thereby ending the pilot status of the IDA guarantee program. Management maintains a program ceiling for IDA guarantees for risk management purposes, initially set at $1.5 billion.
Instrument Type and Project Eligibility
IDA offers partial risk guarantees to cover private lenders or investors through shareholder loans, against the risk of a government (or government-owned entity) failing to perform its contractual obligations with respect to a private project, and where official agencies and the private market currently offer insufficient insurance coverage.
Partial risk guarantees can cover a range of sovereign or parastatal risks, subject to specific obligations contractually agreed to by the government for a specific project. The types of risks covered may vary, including but not limited to: (i) breach of contract; (ii) currency non-convertibility and non-transferability; (iii) changes in law; and (iv) expropriation and nationalization.
1	IDA's Articles of Agreement (Article V, Section 2(a)) state,
“financing by the Association shall take the form of loans. ” IDA may provide financing in different form, such as grants and guarantees, only if the funds for such financing are accompanied by express advance authorization for such other form of financing. The restriction also applies to “funds derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, ” i.e. reflows.
In terms of project eligibility, guarantees are available in selective cases in IDA-only countries where an IBRD Enclave Guarantee2 is not applicable and in blend countries which do not have access to IBRD funding due to creditworthiness constraints.
Guarantee Pricing
Standard charges consist of an annual guarantee fee of 0.75 percent on IDA’s maximum exposure3 under the guarantee and an annual standby fee or commitment charge which is set to match the level of commitment charges applicable for IDA credits at the time of guarantee approval. The guarantee fee and the standby fee are payable either periodically in installments or in a single upfront payment, on a present-value basis. In addition, IDA charges a onetime initiation fee of 0.15 percent or $100,000 (whichever is higher) and a processing fee of up to
0.50 percent of the principal amount of the guarantee for all private sector borrowers. The processing fee is determined on a case-by-case basis and can either be waived or increased in exceptional cases.
Counter-guarantee from the Government
When IDA issues a guarantee, it obtains a counterguarantee from the host government. If the guarantee is called, IDA pays the project lenders. Without limiting its rights under the counterguarantee (indemnity) agreement, IDA takes into account all relevant circumstances in deciding whether or not to exercise its right to demand compensation from the host government under the counter-guarantee, and what form the compensation
2	IBRD Enclave Guarantees are partial risk guarantees structured for export-oriented commercial projects in IDA-only countries that generate foreign exchange.
3	IDA's maximum exposure to a borrower's risk under a guarantee is defined in a manner similar to disbursed credits, i.e., as the full value of the disbursed and outstanding balance under the guarantee financing.
will take (for example whether it will be a cash settlement or converted into a credit to be repaid over time).
Guarantees Exposure
IDA’s exposure on its guarantees (measured by discounting each guaranteed amount from its first call date) is $198 million at June 30, 2009 ($209 million at June 30, 2008). For additional information see the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Development Credits and Guarantees.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, no guarantees provided by IDA were called.
4.4	Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative is a comprehensive approach to reduce the external debt of the world’s poorest, most heavily indebted countries, and it represented an important step forward in placing debt relief within an overall framework of poverty reduction. The countries that qualify for HIPC assistance are the poorest countries that are eligible for highly concessional assistance from IDA and from the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
Implementation mechanisms of the Enhanced HIPC Framework include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, and (ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
The list of countries potentially eligible under the Enhanced HIPC Framework has been limited whereby no new countries can be considered for eligibility. As of June 30, 2009, the status of all potentially eligible and current HIPCs according to stage reached under the Enhanced HIPC Framework is provided in Table 5.
As of June 30, 2009, the accumulated provision for HIPC Debt Initiative stands at $3,251 million ($4,215 million—June 30, 2008). The decrease of $964 was due to a combination of providing debt relief during the course of the year, Nepal’s decision not to seek eligibility under the HIPC Debt Relief Initiative, credits being written off upon Burundi reaching its completion point and revisions of estimates due to completion Point dates being postponed for a number of countries.
4.5	Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI)
The MDRI, approved by the Executive Directors in June 2006, provides additional debt relief through 100 percent cancellation of eligible debt owed to IDA, the African Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund by countries that reach the HIPC completion point. The objectives of MDRI are twofold: deepening debt relief to HIPCs while safeguarding the long-term financial capacity of IDA and other participating multilateral institutions; and encouraging the best use of additional donor resources for development, by allocating them to low-income countries on the basis of policy performance.
Donors have agreed to compensate IDA on a dollar-for-dollar basis for forgone credit reflows due to debt cancellation under the MDRI. These resources are accounted for as subscriptions and contributions. As of June 30, 2009, IDA has received donor commitments to the MDRI in the amount of $32,390 million at the agreed replenishment foreign exchange reference rates, representing 86% of the total financing requirements based on the updated cost estimates for the MDRI as of September 30,
2007.	A summary by donor country of the IoCs received under the MDRI resolution as of June 30,
2009	is provided in Notes to Financial Statements -Note B - Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions.
IDA provides in full for the estimated probable write-off of the principal component of debt relief to be delivered under the MDRI. As of June 30,
2009	the accumulated provision for MDRI is $6,086 million ($7,628 million, June 30, 2008). The decrease of $1,542 million was due to a combination of Nepal’s decision not to seek eligibility under the HIPC Debt Relief Initiative, credits being written off upon Burundi reaching its completion point and revisions of estimates due to completion point dates being postponed for a number of countries.
A list of development credits written off, by country, on an accumulated basis since implementation of the MDRI, commencing on July
1,	2006, is provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Development Credits and Guarantees.
4.6	Financial Crisis Response Fast Track Facility
In December 2008, the Executive Directors approved the establishment of the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility through which a better response can be provided against the impact of the global financial crisis on IDA countries by fostering a more responsive analysis of pressing needs of IDA borrowers, and a larger and faster response to those needs. The main parameters of this fast track facility are:
•	An initial $2 billion of IDA15 resources to be fast tracked from existing country allocations without any additional resources being provided under this Facility.
•	Front loading or acceleration of commitments is allowed up to 50 percent in cases where fast-tracked operations cause annual country allocations to be exceeded.
•	IDA-only and blend countries that can demonstrate a significant impact from the crisis are eligible.
•	Fast track procedures include shortened management review periods.
Incremental demand for IDA’s resources in response to the financial crisis has been limited to
date, but is expected to increase. As of June 30,
2009, ten operations totaling $990 million and covering eight countries have been brought forward for fast track processing.
Section 5: FINANCIAL RESOURCES
5.1	Commitment Authority Framework
The resources available to IDA for funding its lending activities constitute its commitment authority. IDA finances its credit, guarantee and grant commitments primarily from subscriptions and contributions from donor countries. Additional funds come from IDA’s internal resources, including reflows (repayments of principal on outstanding credits), investment income, and transfers by IBRD out of its net income and grants as designations out of IFC retained earnings. Since IDA’s lending is highly concessional, its resources are periodically replenished, normally every three years. Since its inception, IDA’s resources have been replenished fifteen times, complemented by an additional replenishment agreed in 2006 for financing the MDRI.
Starting from FY1989, the Executive Directors authorized IDA to make advance commitments against future reflows and other internal resources. The Advance Commitment Scheme4 was established in recognition of the fact that credits disburse over several years and therefore cash in hand is not needed at the time of commitment.5
5.2	Donor Resources Replenishment Process
Donors normally replenish IDA’s resources every three years. The regular replenishment process has several steps:
(a)	Replenishment Discussions. These include meetings between IDA’s management and donor country representatives, called IDA Deputies. Issues discussed include the size of the replenishment, relative burden-sharing among donors, and the policy framework for the replenishment. Discussions in IDA15 included the issues of IDA’s role in the global aid architecture; IDA’s effectiveness at the country level; and IDA’s support for fragile states. Contributions are negotiated in SDR
4	Credits, which disburse over several years, do not have to be fully cash funded at the time of their approval by the Executive Directors. This allows donor contributions to be encashed over several years and internal resources to be committed in advance of their anticipated receipt.
5	To determine the appropriate level of internal resources during a replenishment period, long-term financial projections are used to manage IDA's cash flows on a going concern basis, under a set of underlying assumptions relating to future lending volumes and the level offuture donor contributions.
terms, and translated into national currencies using an average exchange rate, agreed upon early in the replenishment process.
(b)	Advance Contributions Scheme. To avoid disruption to IDA programs at the start of a new replenishment, donors can participate in an advance contributions scheme. The advance contributions scheme allows IDA to continue making new lending commitments without waiting for the new replenishment to become effective. The advance contribution scheme lapses once the new replenishment becomes effective. Donors can choose not to participate in the Advance Contribution Scheme.
(c)	Replenishment Effectiveness. The effective date of a replenishment occurs when IDA receives Instruments of Commitment (IoCs) from donors whose aggregate contributions account for not less than the amount defined in the Replenishment Resolution. IDA15 became effective on November 6, 2008, following the receipt of IoCs from donors above the minimum threshold of SDR 9,696 million set in the IDA15 Replenishment Resolution.
(d)	Commitment Authority. Donor contributions become available for commitment in three equal tranches. The first tranche becomes available for commitment upon the effectiveness of the advance contributions scheme or of the replenishment. The second and third tranches are subsequently released for commitment on the dates specified in the Replenishment Resolution.
(e)	Payment of Contributions. Typically, contributions are made in cash or noninterest bearing demand notes, on specified dates in three equal annual installments. A discount may be provided for cash payments based on an accelerated schedule rather than the standard replenishment schedule. The amount of discount is calculated so that the net present value of cash payments made according to the revised schedule is equal to the net present value of the cash payments under the encashment schedule agreed for the replenishment.
(f)	Encashment. Donor contributions are drawn down, on an approximately pro rata basis among donors, in accordance with the agreed encashment schedule.
Members’ Voting Rights
IDA allocates votes to its members in two ways. Membership votes are allocated equally among members, and subscription votes are allocated in relation to a member's initial and subsequent subscriptions and contributions. The key rules governing the voting rights system are as follows:
•	The voting power of each Part I member reflects its share of total cumulative financial contributions to IDA by all Part I members, plus its original membership votes;
•	Part II members can maintain their relative voting power by making subscriptions at nominal cost6 and in national currency; and
•	Part II members providing IDA with additional resources “in usable form”7 receive the same increase in voting power that Part I members receive for their contributions. After donor negotiations for a replenishment are completed, subscriptions are allocated to nondonor Part II members to provide them the opportunity to maintain their relative voting power.
Both Part I and II members receive additional membership votes when they make additional subscriptions. The distribution of membership votes helps smaller members and the Part II members as a group, to maintain their relative voting power.
Risks Associated with Donor Resources
IDA experiences foreign currency exposure due to currency mismatches between its disbursement obligations for credits and grants denominated in SDR and donor contributions denominated in national currencies. Exchange rate fluctuations will alter the SDR value of donor contributions from the time of commitment by donors until the actual encashment of these contributions. This currency risk is addressed in Section 8.4 Market Risk.
Delays in the timing of encashment affect IDA’s liquidity. If encashment delays occur, IDA may agree with the donor on a revised encashment schedule that yields at least an equivalent value. Another risk is the potential for delays in declaring
6	The nominal cost of one subscription vote was set at U.S.$
80 (1960 gold dollars) for the third replenishment, and U.S.
$ 25 (current dollars) in the subsequent replenishments. The effective cost of a vote for Part I members has grown from about $9,900 under the third replenishment to about $16,800 under the fifteenth replenishment.
7	Resources are deemed to be “in usable form” if they are provided in “freely convertible currency ” as defined in Article 2, Section 2(f) of IDA's Articles of Agreement or in local currency available for financing in the donor country.
effectiveness of the replenishment due to a delay in receipt of Instruments of Commitment (IoCs).
5.3	Internal Resources
IDA’s internal resources include reflows (principal repayments and income from charges less administrative expenses), investment income, the stock of liquidity, and residual resources from past replenishments that become available to IDA during the replenishment period. Repayments of outstanding credits constitute the largest component of internal resources.
Risks Associated with Internal Resources
Under the Advance Commitment Scheme, IDA makes commitments against projected levels of internal resources over the disbursement period of these commitments. The level of reflows would be affected if borrowers were to fall behind in their debt service. Reflows are also affected by the delivery of debt relief under HIPC and MDRI. Furthermore, the level of investment income varies with movements in market interest rates. It is therefore essential to ensure that resources are available to fund disbursements when they are needed. To monitor this risk, IDA’s management reviews the level of commitment authority regularly and provides an annual report to IDA’s Executive Directors.
5.4	IBRD Transfers
Since 1964, IDA has received regular financial support from IBRD in the form of annual direct transfers. By the end of FY2008 and coinciding with the end of IDA14, the total direct transfers received stood at $9,845 million. The IDA15 financing framework includes an indicative amount of IBRD transfers of $1,750 million. Dependent first on IBRD fulfilling its reserve retention needs, it is expected that this amount will be allocated in three installments during fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011. Each installment is required to be approved annually by IBRD’s Board of Governors. If approved each installment is expected to be drawn down immediately. During FY2009, IDA received the first of these installments of $583 million from IBRD, resulting in a cumulative direct transfer of $10,428 million. In the context of the debt relief costs associated with the HIPC Debt Initiative, IBRD has provided additional resources to IDA through contributions to the Debt Relief Trust Fund totaling $2,330 million as of June 30,
2009.
5.5	IFC Grants
Starting in 2006, IFC designated $150 million out of its retained earnings as a grant to IDA. The IDA15 financing framework includes an indicative amount of $1,750 million as grants to IDA. Of the
IDA15 indicative amount, IDA has already received $950 million, resulting in cumulative grants received of $1,100 million as of June 30, 2009. The remaining $800 million is expected to be paid over FY2010 and FY2011, subject to availability of funds and would be paid immediately upon IDA and IFC signing the respective grant agreements. The proceeds of these IFC grants must be used by IDA for sectors and themes which contribute significantly to private sector growth and economic development in countries that are members of both IFC and IDA.
5.6	Other Transfers
Under agreements governing the administration of certain trust funds, IDA may receive surplus assets as transfers upon the termination of these trust funds. In addition, as development credits are repaid to trust funds, in certain cases the repaid funds are transferred to IDA. Receipts of these transfers are reported as income in the period in which they are received. Given the small size and the unpredictable timing of these transfers, they have not been included as part of any replenishment resources. However, these transfers have added to IDA’s liquidity. Details of these transfers by transferee are provided in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note H-Trust Fund Administration
5.7	Fifteenth Replenishment of IDA’s Resources (IDA15)
IDA15 runs from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2011. Chart 3 provides a breakdown of the principal sources making up the total lending envelope of SDR 27.8 billion under the IDA15 Commitment Authority Framework. Out of this total, SDR 8.4 billion (30%) was committed during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, leaving SDR 19.4 billion for future commitments during FY2010 and FY2011.
Chart 3: IDA15 Commitment Authority by Source of Funds
6.1	Performance Based Allocation System
A key concern for IDA is inequitable allocation of resources to borrowers given that special priorities of poverty reduction may be in force during a particular replenishment period. This risk of inequitable allocation is managed by allocating resources to borrowers based on a Performance Based Allocation (PBA) system (see Chart 4). The PBA system has evolved over time with modifications and enhancements being incorporated at successive replenishments. The performance-based allocations for all countries include a basic allocation of SDR4.5 million per country per replenishment (or SDR1.5 million annually), which benefits small states in particular.
6.2	Country Performance Rating
Under the PBA system individual country allocations are derived substantially from Country Performance Ratings (CPR), population and, to a lesser extent, GNI per capita.
The Country Performance Ratings are assessed annually using a weighted combination of three elements:
(a)	Country Policy and Institutional Assessments (CPIA), conducted annually by IDA to assess the quality of each country’s policy and institutions for fostering sustainable growth, poverty reduction, and ability to effectively use development assistance. The CPIA assesses each country’s policy and institutional framework and consists of defined criteria grouped into four equally weighted clusters: (A) economic management; (B) structural policies; (C) policies for social inclusion and equity; and (D) public sector management and institutions.
(b)	The Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), which captures the effectiveness of IDA-financed projects and programs based on the percentage of actual IDA problem projects in a given country.
(c)	The Governance rating is calculated based on a review of public sector management and institutions.
6.3	Grant Allocations and Debt Cancellation
Before arriving at a country’s final allocation, any grant allocations to that country are discounted. In addition, for those countries eligible for debt cancellation under the MDRI, the debt service due in the relevant fiscal year is netted out from that year’s allocation.
6.4	Exceptions
A number of specific exceptions to the PBA system have been agreed upon. These include:
•	Capped-blend countries with access, or potential access to IBRD loans receive less than their allocation norms due to their broader financing options.
•	Countries emerging from severe conflict can, under certain conditions, be provided with additional resources in support of their recovery and in recognition of a period of exceptional need.
•	Additional allocations may be provided to IDA countries in the aftermath of major natural disasters, where the existing allocations would not allow for a sufficient response.
6.5	IDA 15 Policy Framework
During the IDA15 period, IDA will be guided by the policy framework outlined in Box 2. This policy framework was agreed upon during the replenishment discussions.
Section 7: MANAGEMENT OF LIQUID ASSET HOLDINGS
7.1	Investment Policy Objectives
IDA is not a market-based financial entity, and in the absence of access to borrowed funds, IDA’s primary objective in the management of its liquid assets is to ensure that funds will be available on a timely basis in the amount needed to meet future cash flow requirements, including disbursements for credits, grants and administrative expenses. Consistent with the primary objective, IDA also seeks to maximize returns, subject to loss constraints, to generate investment income, which can be added to IDA’s internal resources.
7.2	Minimum Liquidity Levels
IDA is authorized to borrow from the capital markets under its Articles of Agreement. However, IDA does not borrow as a matter of policy, other than for short-term cash management purposes. During the IDA15 period, fiscal year 2009 to 2011, IDA’s minimum liquidity is set at 33 percent of a three-year annual moving average of gross disbursements. IDA’s minimum liquidity is designed to meet both expected and unexpected demands.
Based on an analysis of expected and unexpected demands, IDA’s low case minimum liquidity requirement has been estimated at around $3.5 billion at present with the high case defined as 150 percent of the low case amount.
7.3	General Investment Authorization
The General Investment Authorization for IDA approved by the Executive Directors provides the basic authority under which the liquid assets of IDA can be invested. Further, all investment activities are conducted in accordance with a more detailed set of Investment Guidelines. The Investment Guidelines are approved by the Chief Financial Officer and implemented by the Treasurer. These Investment Guidelines set out detailed trading and operational rules including providing criteria for eligible instruments for investment, establishing risk parameters relative to benchmarks, such as an overall stop-loss limit and duration deviation, specifying concentration limits on counterparties and instrument classes, as well as establishing clear lines of responsibility for risk monitoring and compliance.
7.4	Liquidity Tranching
Starting in FY2009, IDA’s liquid assets are invested
in three separate tranches as described below.
Tranche 1 This tranche includes balances of accelerated encashment of donor contributions and transfers and grants from IBRD and IFC. The benchmark of this tranche is designed to be duration neutral in comparison to the stream of future net cash outflows such that the variation in investment earnings will be largely matched by equivalent changes in the present value of contractual net cash outflows of IDA. The duration is periodically reviewed and reset at least annually to reflect the duration of the future net cash outflows as well as prevailing market conditions.
Tranche 2 This is a medium term investment
tranche and includes liquidity required to fund commitments of development credits and grants and a portion of the minimum liquidity. This tranche is
managed in accordance with a return maximization strategy subject to prespecified risk constraints over a medium-term (three year) investment horizon. The duration and associated benchmarks of this tranche are reviewed and adjusted periodically as needed, in line with market conditions so as to conform to the specified risk tolerance.
Tranche 3 This is a short-term investment tranche and includes liquidity needed for IDA’s ongoing financial operations with an investment horizon of less than one year. The tranche is comprised primarily of working capital needed for the current year and a portion of the minimum liquidity. The paramount investment objective of this tranche is to ensure liquidity and timely availability of the investment balances when needed, with investment returns being a secondary consideration. The tranche is invested in the form of overnight and very short-term cash investments.
Prior to FY2009, the liquid assets were invested in two tranches.
A reconciliation of the Net Investment Portfolio to the line items appearing on the Balance Sheet is provided in Note C-Investments of IDA’s Financial Statements. This note also provides the currency composition of the Net Investment Portfolio, which shows that the investments are denominated in the composite currencies of the SDR. IDA’s Net Investment Portfolio combining all the three tranches was $21,287 million at June 30, 2009 ($19,053 million—June 30, 2008).
Section 8: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
IDA assumes various kinds of risk in the process of providing concessional financing. Its activities can give rise to four major types of risk: credit risk; market risk (interest rate and exchange rate); liquidity risk; and operational risk. The major inherent risk to IDA is country credit risk.
8.1	Governance Structure
A Risk Management governance structure supports Senior Management in their oversight function, particularly in the coordination of different aspects of risk management, and in connection with risks that cut across functional areas.
The Finance Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, makes recommendations and, where appropriate takes decisions in the areas of financial policy and oversight of financial reporting. The subcommittees that report to the Finance Committee are the Strategy, Performance and Risk
Subcommittee, the Credit Risk Subcommittee and the Finance Initiatives Subcommittee.
The Strategy, Performance and Risk Subcommittee develops and monitors the policies under which market and commercial credit risks faced by IDA are measured, reported and managed. The Subcommittee also monitors compliance with policies governing commercial credit exposure and currency management. Specific areas of activity include reviewing and endorsing guidelines for limiting balance sheet and market risks, the use of derivative instruments, investing activities, and monitoring matches between assets and their funding. In addition, the Subcommittee meets quarterly to formally review current and proposed business strategy and risk limits/policies, along with business results, and financial risk profile to facilitate alignment between business and risk management. The Credit Risk Subcommittee monitors the measurement and reporting of country credit risk and reviews the impact on the provision for losses on development credits and guarantees of any changes in exposure, risk ratings of borrowing member countries, or movements between the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. The Finance Initiatives Subcommittee reviews the financial, organizational and implementation implications of new initiatives that may impact IDA.
The IDA Resource Mobilization Department which reports to the Vice President of Concessional Finance and Global Partnerships, manages IDA replenishments. This department discusses policy and funding frameworks with donors, and allocates concessional resources. Responsibility for financial management, including asset-liability management and the management of liquidity, currency and interest rate risks, also lies with this department.
Country credit risk, the primary risk faced by IDA, is identified, measured and monitored by the Credit Risk Department, led by the Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Vice-President, Corporate Finance and Risk Management. This unit is independent from IDA’s operational business units.
Moreover, in order to further protect the independence of the unit, individual country credit risk ratings are not shared with the Executive Directors and are not made public. In addition, this department is responsible for determining the adequacy of provisions for losses on credits and guarantees and monitoring borrowers that are vulnerable to crises in the near term.
Counterparty credit risks in IDA's financial operations are identified, measured and monitored by the Corporate Finance Department, which also reports to the Vice-President, Corporate Finance and Risk Management. The Corporate Finance
Department works with IDA's financial managers, who are responsible for the day-to-day management of these risks, to establish and document processes that facilitate, control and monitor risk. These processes are built on a foundation of initial identification and measurement of risks by each of the business units. Under the direction of the Finance Committee, policies and procedures for measuring and managing such risks are formulated, approved and communicated throughout IDA. Senior managers represented on the Committee are responsible for maintaining sound credit assessments, addressing transaction and product risk issues, providing an independent review function and monitoring the development credits and investments.
The primary responsibility for the management of operational risk in IDA's financial operations resides with each of IDA's managers. These individuals are responsible for identifying operational risks and establishing, maintaining and monitoring appropriate internal controls in their respective areas using an operational risk management framework.
This framework requires each business unit to document operational risks and controls, assess the likelihood and impact of operational risks and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of existing controls using guidelines established by IDA. An independent operational risk control unit supports this process by undertaking periodic reviews, performing quality assurance testing and reporting exceptions.
The processes and procedures by which IDA manages its risk profile continually evolve as its activities change in response to market, credit, product, operational and other developments. The Executive Directors, particularly the Audit Committee members, periodically review trends in IDA's risk profiles and performance, as well as any significant developments in risk management policies and controls.
8.2	Managing Risk Bearing Capacity
The risk bearing capacity of IDA falls under two main categories. The first is the extent to which IDA can commit to new financing of credits, grants and guarantees given its financial position at any point in time. The second is whether IDA has sufficient liquidity to meet temporary demands due to expected volatility in cash inflows and outflows, and unexpected net draw-downs of liquid resources, which would not be reversed over time.
Capacity to commit to new financing of credits and grants.
IDA’s capacity to commit to new financing of credits and grants at any point in time is defined by the Commitment Authority Framework of the particular replenishment which is effective at that time. The risks to this lending capacity can arise from both donor and internal resources. These risks are discussed in Section 5 Financial Resources.
Sufficient liquidity to meet both expected and unexpected demands
Based on estimates of liquidity demand (see Section 7 Management of Liquid Asset Holdings) IDA’s minimum liquidity requirement has been estimated within a band of $3.5 billion to $5.25 billion.
During FY2009, the actual minimum liquidity and the unrestricted currency balances due from banks did not fall below $3.5 billion.
8.3	Credit Risk
Country Credit Risk
Country risk is the risk of loss due to a borrowing member country not meeting its contractual payment obligations. The IDA Resource Mobilization Department regularly reviews the credit risk of its borrowing member countries in terms of the country’s debt sustaining capacity, in conjunction with the Credit Risk Department. These reviews provide an input in determining the allocation of commitment authority resources for a borrowing member country as well as the composition of credits versus grants for new operations. Section 4.2 Development Grants describes how funds are allocated for grants based on a country’s risk of debt distress.
Overdue and non-performing credits
When a borrower fails to make payment on any principal, interest or other charges, IDA has the contractual right to suspend disbursements immediately on all credits and grants. IDA's current policy however, is to exercise this right through a graduated approach as summarized in Box 3. These policies also apply to those member countries who are eligible to borrow from both IBRD and IDA, and whose payments on IBRD loans may become overdue. For borrowers with IDA credits who become overdue in their debt service payments on IBRD loans, IDA also applies the treatment described in Box 3. For a summary of countries with credits or guarantees in nonaccrual status at June 30, 2009, see Notes to Financial Statements-Note D-Development Credits and Guarantees
Accumulated Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
The adequacy of the accumulated provision for debt relief for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, including estimates of decision and completion point dates. IDA periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge against or addition to income. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI is discussed in Section 9, Critical Accounting Policies.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Development Credits and Guarantees
Delays in receiving payments from development credits or guarantee premiums result in present value losses to IDA since it does not charge fees or additional service charges or interest on any overdue service charges, interest or other charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of service charges and other charges made according to the credit's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees after taking into consideration the expected relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI. This accumulated provision reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. The methodology for determining the accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees is discussed in Section 9, Critical Accounting Policies.
The Credit Risk Subcommittee reviews the provision for losses on credits and guarantees at least quarterly and, if necessary, adjustments are made to the provision. In addition, the Audit Committee is apprised by management at least twice a year on the accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees.
The accumulated provision for losses on both the accrual and nonaccrual credit portfolio (excluding guarantees) decreased by $13 million from $1,253 million at June 30, 2008 to $1,240 million at June 30 2009. This decrease comprises translation adjustment of $42 million offset by an increase of provision for losses on credits of $29 million. The increase of provision for losses on credits was primarily due to changes in the volume and distribution of development credits outstanding, partially offset by the net impact of changes in the credit quality of the development credit portfolio,
and the annual update of the expected default frequencies (probability of default to IDA).
Commercial Credit Risk
Commercial credit risk is the risk of loss due to a counterparty not honoring its contractual obligations. IDA’s commercial credit risk is concentrated in investments in debt instruments issued by sovereign governments, agencies, banks and corporate entities. The majority of these investments are in AAA and AA rated instruments.
In the normal course of its business, IDA utilizes various derivatives and foreign exchange financial instruments, to generate income through its investment activities and for asset/liability management purposes. Derivative and foreign exchange transactions also involve credit risk. The effective management of credit risk is vital to the success of IDA’s investment and asset/liability management activities. The monitoring and managing of these risks is a continuous process due to changing market environments.
IDA controls the counterparty credit risk arising from investments, derivatives and asset/liability management activities through its credit approval process, and monitoring procedures. The credit approval process involves evaluating counterparty creditworthiness, assigning credit limits and determining the risk profile of specific transactions. Credit limits are calculated and monitored on the basis of potential exposures taking into consideration current market values and estimates of potential future movements in those values.
IDA measures the credit risk exposure as the replacement cost of the derivative or foreign exchange product. This is also referred to as replacement risk or the mark-to-market exposure amount. While notional principal is the most commonly used volume measure in the derivative and foreign exchange markets, it is not a measure of credit or market risk.
Mark-to-market exposure is a measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes IDA and, therefore, creates an exposure for IDA. When the mark-to-market is negative, IDA owes the counterparty and does not have replacement risk.
Table 6 provides details of IDA’s estimated credit exposure on its investments and swaps, net of collateral held, by counterparty rating category. The most important development during FY2009 has been the shift towards AAA rated counterparties, from 51% to 66%. This flight to quality during the current turmoil in the financial markets was achieved by moving from banks to high-grade sovereigns, sovereign-guaranteed bank debt, and agencies which offer implicit government guarantees. Other developments included downgrades of a small portion of the holdings of asset-backed securities (ABS) due to mono-line insurers being downgraded. As a result the ratings for a small portion went down to CCC at June 30,
2009.
8.4	Market Risk
IDA faces risks which result from market movements, primarily changes in currency exchange and interest rates. The manner in which these market risks impact IDA’s finances and the steps taken by IDA to counter them is described below.
Currency Risk
IDA faces currency risk exposure as a result of the currency mismatch between its commitments for development credits and grants, which are denominated in SDRs; donor contributions, which are denominated in both national currencies and SDRs; and the portion of IDA’s internal resources and expenditures that is denominated in U.S. dollars.
IDA mitigates this risk by adjusting the currency composition of its liquid asset portfolio through foreign exchange transactions.
Starting from May 2008, IDA extended its currency risk management tools to include the use of currency forward contracts to convert donors’ encashments provided in national currencies into the four currencies of the SDR basket. IDA's transactions are intermediated by IBRD for efficiency purposes, due to IBRD's established systems and collateral management processes.
Under this arrangement, IDA enters into foreign exchange forwards with IBRD, and IBRD simultaneously enters into off-setting foreign exchange forwards with market counterparts. For further details please see Notes to Financial Statements-Note F-Derivative Instruments.
IDA funds a portion of its credits with internal resources, including investment income on its liquid asset portfolio. Details of the investment objectives of each of the three tranches of IDA’s liquid assets are provided in Section 7 - Management of Liquid Asset Holdings.
8.5	Operational Risk
Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events, and includes business disruption and system failure, transaction processing failures and failures in execution of legal, fiduciary and agency responsibilities. IDA, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks.
IDA attempts to mitigate operational risk by maintaining a system of internal controls that is designed to keep that risk at appropriate levels in view of the financial strength of IDA and the characteristics of the activities and markets in which IDA operates.
The operational risk management framework used by IDA is based on the Integrated Risk Management Framework approved by the Board in January 2003 and involves the following core steps:
•	Key operational risks are identified annually and documented using a combination of tools including business process review and risk assessments.
•	Operational risks are assessed based on likelihood of occurrence and the resulting financial impact using probability and severity parameters.
•	Controls that mitigate operational risks are evaluated using a combination of processes including self assessment workshops, independent walk through tests of processes,
independent compliance testing by IDA’s internal audit department, quality assurance testing by management, project reviews undertaken by the Independent Evaluation Group and annual internal representation letters from business unit managers.
•	The results of the work undertaken to
evaluate risks and operational effectiveness of internal controls are reported to the Audit Committee.
IDA Controls Review over Lending Operations
In FY2009, IDA completed a comprehensive and independent review of internal controls over lending operations to fulfill a commitment made to donors during the negotiations of IDA’s fourteenth replenishment. This review used the rigorous Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework and methodology, which establishes “a common definition of internal controls, standards, and criteria against which companies and organizations can assess their control systems.” These control systems ensure that funds are used efficiently and for their intended purpose, and include procurement processes, supervision mechanisms and procedures and measures to prevent fraud and corruption. The review was in-depth and extensive, and encompassed three levels: (1) a management selfassessment of the control framework; (2) review by the Internal Auditing Department (IAD); and (3) independent evaluation by the Bank Group’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG).
The results of the IDA Controls Review have provided management and the Executive Directors with reasonable assurance that the three COSO objectives of (i) reliable financial reporting, (ii) compliance with policies and procedures, and (iii) the efficiency and effectiveness of operations, are being achieved subject to a number of qualifications. These qualifications which do not impact the reliability of internal controls over financial reporting, relate to issues in lending operations. To address these issues, management has adopted and begun implementing a detailed action plan. An independent Implementation Oversight Panel (IOP) has been established to monitor, oversee, and advise the President and the Executive Directors on the implementation status and progress achieved.
Internal Controls Over External Financial Reporting
Since FY1997, IDA's management has made an annual assertion that, as of June 30 of each fiscal year, its system of internal control over its external financial reporting has met the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting as described in the COSO framework. Concurrently
since FY1997, IDA's external auditors have provided an attestation report that management's assertion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over external financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects.
Management has carried out an evaluation of internal control over external financial reporting for the purpose of determining if there were any changes made in internal controls during the fiscal year covered by this report that had materially affected, or would be reasonably likely to materially affect IDA's internal controls over external financial reporting. As of June 30, 2009 no such significant changes had occurred.
Section 9: CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Notes to IDA's financial statements contain a summary of IDA's significant accounting policies. The following is a description of those accounting policies, which involve significant management judgments that are difficult, complex or subjective and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
9.1	Valuation of Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IDA’s financial statements at fair value. Disclosures related to the fair value of these, and other financial instruments are included in Note M - Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Fair value is based on market quotations when possible. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available have been valued based on discounted cash flow models using market estimates of cash flows and discount rates. All the financial models used for input to IDA's financial statements are subject to both internal and periodic external verification and review by qualified personnel.
These models use market sourced inputs, such as interest rates, exchange rates and volatilities. Selection of these inputs may involve some judgment. Imprecision in estimating these factors, and changes in assumptions, can impact net income and IDA's financial position as reported in the financial statements. IDA believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable given its processes for obtaining external prices and parameters, ensuring that valuation models are reviewed and validated both internally and externally, and applying its approach consistently from period to period.
9.2	Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
The adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, including estimates of decision and completion point dates. IDA periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative
and MDRI. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge against or addition to income.
9.3	Provision for Losses on Development Credits and Guarantees
IDA's accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios after taking into consideration the expected relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI. The provision required is a function of the expected default frequency and the assumed severity of the loss (given default) for each of the borrowers.
The expected default frequency has the borrower’s risk rating assigned to it. The determination of a borrower's risk rating is based on both quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, which include political risk, external debt and liquidity, fiscal policy and public debt burden, balance of payments risks, economic structure and growth prospects, monetary and exchange rate policy, financial sector risks and corporate sector debt and other vulnerabilities. IDA periodically reviews such factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees accordingly. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge against or addition to income. Actual losses may differ from expected losses due to unforeseen changes in any of the factors that affect borrowers' creditworthiness.
Additional information on IDA's provisioning policy and the status of nonaccrual loans can be found in the Notes to Financial Statements-Note A-Summary of Significant Accounting and Related Policies and Note D-Development Credits and Guarantees.
9.4	Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
IBRD, IFC and MIGA participate in pension and postretirement benefit plans that cover substantially all of their staff members. All costs, assets and liabilities associated with the plans are allocated between IBRD, IFC and MIGA based upon their employees' respective participation in the plans. Costs allocated to IBRD are subsequently shared between IBRD and IDA based on an agreed cost sharing ratio. The underlying actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and funded status associated with these plans are based on financial market interest rates, past experience, and management's best estimate of future benefit changes and economic conditions. For further details, please refer to Notes to Financial Statements-Note L-Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.
10.1	General Governance
IDA's decision-making structure consists of the Board of Governors, the Executive Directors (the Board) and the President and staff. The Board of Governors is the highest decision-making authority. The Board of Governors may delegate authority to the Board to exercise any of its powers, with the exception of certain powers enumerated in IDA's Articles of Agreement (Article VI, Section 2(c)).
The Board is responsible for IDA's general operations. It reviews and approves IDA's financial policies and practices, including:
•	financial products and programs, such as the terms and conditions of development credits, grants and guarantees, and the provision and modalities of debt relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative; and
•	financial management policies, such as investment authority and policy, the method of apportioning administrative expenses between IDA and IBRD, and the use of IDA's internal resources.
The President is the Chairman of the Board and chief of the operating staff of IDA. Under the direction of the Board, the President conducts the ordinary business of IDA and is responsible for the organization, appointment and dismissal of its officers and staff.
Management Changes
During FY 2009, Ms. Anne-Marie Leroy was appointed as Senior Vice President & World Bank Group General Counsel effective March 9, 2009.
Board Membership
In accordance with its Articles of Agreement, members of IDA's Executive Directors are appointed or elected by their member governments. These Executive Directors are neither officers nor staff of IDA. The President is the only management member of the Board of Executive Directors, serving as a non-voting member and as Chairman of the Board. The Executive Directors have established several Committees including:
•	Audit Committee
•	Budget Committee
•	Committee on Development Effectiveness
•	Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters
•	Ethics Committee
•	Personnel Committee
The Executive Directors and their Committees function in continuous session at the principal offices of IDA, as business requires. Each Committee's terms of reference establishes its respective roles and responsibilities. As Committees do not vote on issues, their role is primarily to serve the Board of Executive Directors in discharging its responsibilities.
10.2	Audit Committee
Membership
The Audit Committee consists of eight members drawn from the Board. Membership on the Committee is determined by the Board, based upon nominations by the Chairman of the Board, following informal consultation with the Executive Directors. In addition, membership of the Committee is expected to reflect the economic and geographic diversity of IDA's member countries and a balanced representation between borrowing and non-borrowing member countries. Generally, Committee members are appointed for a two year term; reappointment to a second term, when possible, is desirable for continuity. Audit Committee meetings are generally open to any member of the Board who may wish to attend, and non-Committee members of the Board may participate in the discussion. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may speak in that capacity at meetings of the Board, with respect to discussions held in the Audit Committee.
Key Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board to assist it in the oversight and assessment of IDA's finances and accounting, including the effectiveness of financial policies, the integrity of financial statements, the system of internal controls regarding finance, accounting and ethics (including fraud and corruption), and financial and operational risks. The Audit Committee also has the responsibility for reviewing the performance and recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditor, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditor and meeting with it in executive session. The Audit Committee participates in oversight of the internal audit function, including reviewing the responsibilities, staffing and the effectiveness of internal audit. The Committee also reviews the annual internal audit plan and meets with the Auditor General in executive session. In the execution of its role, the Committee discusses with management, the external auditors, and the internal auditors, financial issues and policies which have a bearing on IDA’s financial position. The Audit Committee monitors the evolution of developments in corporate governance and the role of audit
committees on an ongoing basis and updated its terms of reference in July 2009.
Communications
The Audit Committee communicates regularly with the full Board through distribution of the following:
•	The minutes of its meetings.
•	Reports of the Audit Committee prepared by its Chairman, which document discussions held. These reports are distributed to the Executive Directors, Alternates, World Bank Group Senior Management and Vice Presidents.
•	“Statement(s) of the Chairman” and statements issued by other members of the Committee.
•	The Annual Report to the Board of Executive Directors, which provides an overview of the main issues addressed by the Committee over the year.
The Audit Committee's communications with the external auditor are described in Section 10.4 Auditor Independence.
Executive Sessions
Members of the Committee may convene in executive session at any time, without management present. Under the Committee's terms of reference, it meets separately in executive session with the external and internal auditors.
Access to Resources and to Management
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee receives a large volume of information, which supports the preparation of the financial statements. The Audit Committee meets both formally and informally throughout the year to discuss financial and accounting matters. Executive Directors have complete access to management. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Committee also reviews with the external auditor, the financial statements prior to their publication and recommends them for approval to the Board.
The Audit Committee has the capacity, under exceptional circumstances, to obtain advice and assistance from outside legal, accounting or other advisors as deemed appropriate.
10.3	Code of Conduct and Business Conduct Infrastructure
The World Bank Group promotes a positive work environment where staff members understand their ethical obligations to the institution, which are embodied in its Core Values and Principles of Staff Employment. In support of this commitment, the
institution has in place a Code of Professional Ethics, entitled Living our Values. The Code applies to all staff worldwide and is available on the World Bank’s website, www.worldbank.org.
Orientation training for new staff and other ethics training, attended by approximately 3,000 staff annually, promote awareness and familiarize staff with the Code.
The World Bank Group is currently finalizing an updated Code, which is expected to be rolled out to staff in the first quarter FY 2010 as the “Code of Conduct.” An e-learning module on the updated Code is also in the final design phases, with rollout planned for the second quarter FY 2010. This training will be for certification, and staff, including consultants, will be required to complete an acknowledgment that they will abide by the tenets of the Code.
In addition to the Code, the business conduct obligations of staff are articulated in the Staff Manual (Principles of Staff Employment, Staff Rules), Administrative Manual and other guidelines. The Principles and Staff Rules require that all staff avoid or properly manage conflicts of interest. In accordance with the Staff Rules, senior managers must complete a confidential financial disclosure instrument with the Office of Ethics and Business Conduct.
In addition to the Code, rules and policies, guidance for staff is also provided through programs, training materials, and other resources. Managers are responsible for ensuring that internal systems, policies, and procedures are consistently aligned with the World Bank Group’s business conduct framework.
The following World Bank Group units assist in communicating business conduct expectations to staff:
•	The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct (EBC) works to ensure that staff are aware of their business conduct-related obligations. It provides insight on ethics trends to senior management and oversees related outreach, training and communication initiatives. EBC also handles allegations of staff misconduct not involving significant fraud and corruption.
•	The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) is charged with investigating allegations of significant fraud and corruption both within the World Bank Group and in Bank-funded projects worldwide. It also trains and educates staff and clients in detecting and reporting fraud and corruption.
Both EBC and INT report directly to the President of the World Bank Group. Staff from these units include professionals from a broad range of disciplines including trainers, financial analysts, researchers, investigators, lawyers, prosecutors, forensic accountants, and staff with World Bank Group operational experience. These units maintain comprehensive websites to provide guidance on how to handle concerns.
The World Bank Group has both an Ethics HelpLine and a Fraud and Corruption hotline, overseen by EBC and INT respectively. These resources are referenced in the Code, and are run by an outside firm staffed by trained specialists. This third-party service offers numerous methods of communication in addition to a toll free service in countries where access to telecommunications may be limited. These phone services can accept calls in multiple languages. Other reporting channels include: phone, mail, email (EBC maintains a Notes service account called Ethics Helpline), or through the units’ respective websites. Callers may also visit the offices in person.
IDA has in place procedures for the receipt, retention and handling of recommendations and concerns identified during accounting, internal control and auditing processes.
The World Bank Group’s Staff Rules clarify and codify the obligations of staff in reporting suspected fraud, corruption or other misconduct that may threaten the operations or governance of the Bank Group. Additionally, these rules offer protection from retaliation. In 2008, the institution implemented strengthened whistleblower protections.
10.4	Auditor Independence
In FY 2003, the Board adopted a set of principles applicable to the appointment of the external auditor for IDA. Key features of those principles include:
•	Prohibition of the external auditor from the provision of all non audit-related services.
•	All audit-related services must be preapproved on a case-by-case basis by the Board, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee.
•	Mandatory rebidding of the external audit contract every five years.
•	Prohibition of any firm serving as external auditors for more than two consecutive five-year terms.
•	Mandatory rotation of the senior partner after five years.
•	An evaluation of the performance of the external auditor at the mid-point of the five year term.
External auditors are appointed to a five-year term of service. This is subject to annual reappointment based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of a resolution by the Executive Directors. In FY2009, KPMG began a five-year term as IDA’s external auditor.
As a standard practice, the external auditor is present as an observer at virtually all Audit Committee meetings and is frequently asked to present its perspective on issues. In addition, the Audit Committee meets periodically with the external auditor in private session without management present. Communication between the external auditor and the Audit Committee is ongoing, as frequently as is deemed necessary by either party. IDA's auditors follow the communication requirements with audit committees set out under U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. In keeping with these standards, significant formal communications include:
•	Annual financial statement reporting.
•	Annual appointment of the external auditors.
•	Presentation of the external audit plan.
•	Presentation of control recommendations and discussion of the COSO attestation and report.
•	Presentation of a statement regarding independence.
In addition to Committee meetings, individual members of the Audit Committee have independent access to the external auditor.
Asset-Backed Securities (ABS): Asset-backed Securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool of underlying assets managed by a trust.
Blend Borrower: IDA Member that is eligible to borrow from IDA on the basis of per capita income and is also eligible to borrow from IBRD on the basis of limited creditworthiness. Given the access to both sources of funds, blend borrowers are expected to limit IDA funding to social sector projects and to use IBRD resources for projects in the ‘harder’ sectors.
Commitment Authority: Total value of resources available during a particular replenishment including donor contributions, internal resources, IBRD transfers, IFC grants and other resources. The Commitment Authority level is monitored periodically to ensure that funding is available to meet commitments and to provide early warning signs of any problems in terms of resource availability.
Completion Point: When conditions specified in the legal notification sent to a country are met and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the HIPC debt relief initiative. When a country reaches its Completion Point, IDA’s commitment to provide the total debt relief for which the country is eligible, becomes irrevocable.
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO): Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. COSO was formed in 1985 to sponsor the National Commission on Fraudulent Financial Reporting, an independent private-sector initiative which studied the causal factors that can lead to fraudulent financial reporting. In 1992, COSO issued its Internal Control-Integrated Framework, which provided a common definition of internal control and guidance on judging its effectiveness.
Decision Point: Decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief under the HIPC Initiative.
Deputies: Representatives of countries who contribute to the resources of IDA. They include representatives from both Part I members and those Part II members who contribute to IDA’s replenishments.
Duration: Duration provides an indication of the interest rate sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in its underlying yield.
Encashment: Draw down (payment in cash) of a promissory note in accordance with a schedule agreed for each replenishment.
Hedging: Hedging is a risk management technique of entering into offsetting commitments to eliminate or minimize the impact of adverse movements in value or cash flow of the underlying instrument or economic condition.
Instrument of Commitment (IoC): A government’s commitment to make a subscription or a subscription and contribution to IDA’s resources.
Membership votes: Voting rights accorded to IDA members are based on participation in the initial subscription and subsequent replenishments. Membership votes are the same for all members whether they are Part I or Part II.
Net Disbursements: Credit disbursements net of repayments and prepayments.
Part I and Part II Members: IDA’s Articles distinguish between two categories of original members -- Part I and Part II -- and provide for a different treatment of the initial subscription payments by each group. Part I members were originally those countries, generally developed countries that contribute to the resources of IDA, whose economic and financial situation justified making the entire amount of their subscriptions available on a freely convertible basis. Part II members are mostly developing countries who subscribe to IDA replenishments for voting rights, Some Part II members also contribute to the resources of IDA.
Replenishment: The process of periodic review of the adequacy of IDA resources and authorization of additional subscriptions. Under IDA’s Articles, replenishments are required to be approved by IDA’s Board of Governors by a two-thirds majority of the total voting power.
Special Drawing Rights (SDR): The SDR is an
international reserve asset, created by the International Monetary Fund in 1969 to supplement the existing official reserves of member countries. The SDR is defined as a basket of currencies, consisting of the euro, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar.
The basket composition is reviewed every five years to ensure that it reflects the relative importance of currencies in the world's trading and financial systems.
Subscription votes: Voting rights accorded to IDA members are based on subscriptions. Subscription votes are calculated at a specific cost per vote for each replenishment and are dependent on each member's subscription amount. Additional subscription votes are provided to members who contribute to the replenishment.
Stop Loss: An order to buy or sell a certain quantity of a certain security if a specified price (the stop price) is reached or passed.
Voting Rights: IDA’s voting rights consist of a combination of membership votes and subscription votes.
The management of the International Development Association (IDA) is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of its published financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates made by management
The financial statements have been audited by an independent audit firm, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of die Executive Directors and their Committees. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during dieir audit of IDA's financial statements and attestation of its internal control over financial reporting was valid and appropriate. The independent auditors’ reports accompany the audited financial statements.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over external financial reporting for financial statement presentations in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in die United States of America. Management maintains a comprehensive system of controls intended to ensure that transactions are executed in accordance with management’s authorization, assets are safeguarded, and financial records are reliable. The system of internal control contains monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies identified. Management believes that internal control over external financial reporting, which is subject to scrutiny by management and the internal auditors, and is revised as considered necessary, support the integrity and reliability of the external financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal controls may vary over time.
IDA assessed its internal control over external financial reporting for financial statement presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2009. This assessment was based on the criteria for effective internal control over external financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Rased upon this assessment, management believes that IDA maintained effective internal control over external financial reporting presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America as of June 30, 2009. Hie independent audit firm that
audited the financial statements has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of IDA’s internal control over external financial reporting.
The Executive Directors of IDA have appointed an Audit Committee responsible for monitoring the accounting practices and internal controls of IDA. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of Executive Directors who are independent of IDA’s management. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Executive Directors the selection of independent auditors. It meets periodically with management, the independent auditors, and the internal auditors to ensure that they are carrying out their responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for performing an oversight role by reviewing and monitoring the financial, accounting and auditing procedures of IDA in addition to reviewing IDA’s financial reports. The independent auditors and the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without the presence of management, to discuss the adequacy of internal control over external financial reporting and any other matters which they believe should be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
KPMG LLP
2001 M Slreet NW Washington, DC 20036
Independent Auditors' Report
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association:
Wc have examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting, that the International Development Association (IDA) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Commission of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). IDA's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assertion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
We conducted our examination in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respccts. Our examination included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our examination also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
An entity’s internal control over financial reporting is a process effected by those charged with governance, management, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation of reliable financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. An entity’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the entity: (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the entity are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and those charged with governance; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention, or timely detection and correction of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the entity's assets that could have a material effcct on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent, or detect and correct misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subjcct to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that IDA maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30. 2009 is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally acccpted in the United States of Amcrica and International Standards on Auditing, the accompanying financial statements of IDA as of and for the year ended June 30, 2009, and our report dated August 5. 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion.
August 5,2009
President and Board of Executive Directors International Development Association:
Wc have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the International Development Association (IDA) as of June 30, 2009, including the summary statement of development credits and statement of voting power and subscriptions and contributions as of June 30, 2009, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in accumulated deficit and cash flows for the fiscal year then ended (2009 financial statements). These financial statements are the responsibility of IDA’s management- Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. The accompanying financial statements of IDA as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, were audited by other auditors whose report dated August 7, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United Slates of America and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the 2009 financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IDA as of June 30, 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the fiscal year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We have also examined management's assertion, included in the accompanying Management's Report Regarding Effectiveness of Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting, that IDA maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated August 5, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion.
llt>
August 5, 2009
Notes to Financial Statements
PURPOSE AND AFFILIATED
organizations
The International Development Association (IDA) is an international organization established in 1960. IDA’s main goal is reducing poverty through promoting sustainable economic development in the less developed countries of the world who are members of IDA, by extending concessionary financing in the form of grants, development credits and guarantees, and by providing related technical assistance. The activities of IDA are complemented by those of three affiliated organizations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Each of these organizations is legally and financially independent from IDA, with separate assets and liabilities, and IDA is not liable for their respective obligations. Transactions with these affiliates are disclosed in the notes that follow. The principal purpose of IBRD is to promote sustainable economic development and reduce poverty in its member countries, primarily by providing loans, guarantees and related technical assistance for specific projects and for programs of economic reform in developing member countries. IFC's purpose is to encourage the growth of productive private enterprises in its member countries through loans and equity investments in such enterprises without a member's guarantee. MIGA’s purpose is to encourage the flow of investments for productive purposes between member countries and, in particular, to developing member countries by providing guarantees against noncommercial risks for foreign investment in its developing member countries.
IDA is immune from taxation pursuant to Article VIII, Section 9, Immunities from Taxation, of IDA’s Articles of Agreement.
note a—summary of significant accounting and related policies
IDA’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
these estimates. Significant judgments have been used in the valuation of certain financial instruments and the determination of the adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative, MDRI and losses on credits and guarantees.
Certain reclassifications of the prior years’ information have been made to conform with the current year’s presentation.
On August 5, 2009, the Executive Directors approved these financial statements for issue, which was also the date through which IDA’s management evaluated subsequent events.
Translation of Currencies
IDA’s financial statements are expressed in terms of U.S. dollars for the purpose of summarizing IDA’s financial position and the results of its operations for the convenience of its members and other interested parties.
IDA is an international organization which conducts its operations in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and the SDR’s component currencies of U.S. dollar, euro, Japanese yen and pound sterling. These comprise the functional currencies of IDA.
Assets and liabilities are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period, except Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions which are translated in the manner described below. Income and expenses are translated at either the market exchange rates in effect on the dates of income and expense recognition, or at an average of the exchange rates in effect during each month. Translation adjustments relating to the revaluation of development credits, development grants payable and all other assets and liabilities denominated in either SDR or the component currencies of SDR, which comprise IDA’s functional currencies are reflected in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Translation adjustments relating to non-functional currencies are reported in the Statement of Income.
Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions Recognition
Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions committed for each IDA replenishment are initially recorded both as Subscriptions and Contributions committed and as Subscriptions and Contributions receivable based upon the full amount of Instruments of Commitment (IoC) received from members upon effectiveness of the relevant replenishment. Prior to effectiveness, only a portion of the value of IoCs received as specified in the replenishment resolution is recorded as
Subscriptions and Contributions committed. IoCs can contain unqualified or qualified commitments. Under an unqualified commitment, a contributing member agrees to pay a specified amount of its subscription and contribution without qualification. A qualified commitment is subject to the contributing member obtaining the necessary appropriation legislation. Subscriptions and contributions made under IoCs become available for commitment for development credits, development grants, and guarantees by IDA in accordance with the IDA commitment authority framework as approved by the Executive Directors.
A replenishment becomes effective when IDA receives IoCs from members whose subscriptions and contributions represent a specified portion of the full replenishment. Amounts not yet paid in, at the date of effectiveness, are recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions receivable and shown as a reduction of Subscriptions and Contributions committed. These receivables become due throughout the replenishment period (generally three years) in accordance with an agreed payment schedule. The actual payment of receivables when they become due may be subject to the budgetary appropriation processes for certain members.
The Subscriptions and Contributions receivable are settled through payment of cash or deposit of nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand notes. The notes are encashed by IDA on an approximately pro rata basis either as provided in the relevant replenishment resolution over the disbursement period of the credits committed under the replenishment, or as needed.
In certain replenishments, donors have had the option of paying all of their subscription and contribution amounts in cash before they become due, and thereby receiving discounts. In addition, some replenishment arrangements have incorporated an accelerated encashment schedule. In these cases, IDA and the donor agree that IDA will invest the cash and retain the income with the donor receiving voting rights for the full undiscounted amount. Subscriptions and Contributions committed are recorded at the full undiscounted amount. Subscriptions and Contributions paid-in are recorded net of discounts.
For the purposes of its financial resources, the membership of IDA is divided into two categories: (1) Part I members, which make payments of subscriptions and contributions provided to IDA in convertible currencies which may be freely used or exchanged by IDA in its operations and (2) Part II members, which make payments of ten percent of
their initial subscriptions in freely convertible currencies, and the remaining 90 percent of their initial subscriptions, and all additional subscriptions and contributions in their own currencies or in freely convertible currencies. Certain Part II members provide a portion of their subscriptions and contributions in the same manner as mentioned in (1) above. IDA’s Articles of Agreement and subsequent replenishment resolutions provide that the currency of any Part II member paid in by it may not be used by IDA for projects financed by IDA and located outside the territory of the member except by agreement between the member and IDA. The local currency portion of subscriptions of Part II members is recorded as restricted under Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions unless released under an agreement between the member and IDA or used for administrative expenses. The cash paid and notes deposited in nonconvertible local currencies for the subscriptions of Part II members are recorded either as currencies subject to restriction under Due from Banks, or as restricted notes included under Non-negotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations on account of member subscriptions and contributions.
Following adoption by the Board of Governors on April 21, 2006 of a resolution authorizing additions to IDA’s resources to finance the MDRI, pledges received in the form of IoC for financing the MDRI are recorded and accounted for in their entirety. Therefore, the full value of all IoCs received is recorded as subscriptions and contributions. Correspondingly, the IoCs are also recorded as Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable and deducted from equity.
Under IDA’s Articles of Agreement, a member may withdraw from membership in IDA at any time. When a government ceases to be a member, it remains liable for all financial obligations undertaken by it to IDA, whether as a member, borrower, guarantor or otherwise. The Articles provide that upon withdrawal, IDA and the government shall proceed to a settlement of accounts. If agreement is not reached within six months, standard arrangements are provided. Under these arrangements, IDA would pay to the government the lower of the member’s total paid-in subscriptions and contributions or the member’s proportionate share of IDA’s net assets. These funds would be paid as a proportionate share of all principal repayments received by IDA on loans made during the period of the government’s membership.
Valuation of Subscriptions and Contributions
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed in terms of “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” (1960 dollars). Following the abolition of gold as a common denominator of the monetary system and the repeal of the provision of the U.S. law defining the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold, the pre-existing basis for translating 1960 dollars into current dollars or any other currency disappeared. The Executive Directors of IDA decided, that until such time as the relevant provisions of the Articles of Agreement are amended, the words “U.S. dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960” in Article II, Section 2(b) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are interpreted to mean the SDR introduced by the International Monetary Fund as the SDR was valued in terms of U.S. dollars immediately before the introduction of the basket method of valuing the SDR on July 1, 1974, such value being equal to $1.20635 for one SDR (the 1974 SDR). The Executive Directors also decided to apply the same standard of value to amounts expressed in 1960 dollars in the relevant resolutions of the Board of Governors.
The subscriptions and contributions provided through the Third Replenishment are expressed on the basis of the 1974 SDR. Prior to the decision of the Executive Directors, IDA had valued these subscriptions and contributions on the basis of the SDR at the current market value of the SDR.
The subscriptions and contributions provided under the Fourth Replenishment and thereafter are expressed in members’ currencies or SDRs and are payable in members’ currencies. Subscriptions and contributions made available for disbursement in cash to IDA are translated at market exchange rates in effect on the dates they were made available. Subscriptions and contributions not yet available for disbursements are translated at market exchange rates in effect at the end of the accounting period.
Maintenance of Value
Article IV, Section 2(a) and (b) of IDA’s Articles of Agreement provides for maintenance of value payments on account of the local currency portion of the initial subscription whenever the par value of the member’s currency or its foreign exchange value has, in the opinion of IDA, depreciated or appreciated to a significant extent, so long as, and to the extent that, such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member. The provisions of Article IV,
Section 2(a) and (b) have by agreement been extended to cover additional subscriptions and contributions of IDA through the Third Replenishment, but are not applicable to those of the Fourth and subsequent replenishments.
The Executive Directors decided on June 30, 1987 that settlements of maintenance of value, which would result from the resolution of the valuation issue on the basis of the 1974 SDR, would be deferred until the Executive Directors decide to resume such settlements. These amounts are shown as Deferred Amounts Receivable to Maintain Value of Currency Holdings and deducted from equity; any changes relate solely to translation adjustments.
Development Credits
In fulfilling its mission, IDA makes concessional credits to the poorest countries. These development credits are made to, or guaranteed by, member governments or to the government of a territory of a member (except for development credits which have been made to regional development institutions for the benefit of members or territories of members of IDA). In order to qualify for lending on IDA terms, a country’s per capita income must be below a certain cut-off level ($1,095 for FY2009 and $1,065 for FY2008) and the country may have only limited or no creditworthiness for IBRD lending.
The following terms apply to the different types of development credits:
Regular development credits: These carry a service charge of 0.75 percent and generally have 35-year (for Blend borrowers) or 40-year (for IDA-only borrowers) final maturities and a 10-year grace period for principal payments.
Hardened-term development credits: These are offered to member countries with per capita income above IDA’s cut-off level for two consecutive years and the lending terms include 20-year maturity, with a 10-year grace period.
Hard-term development credits: Eligibility for these credits is restricted to creditworthy IBRD/IDA blend countries with per capita incomes below the IDA operational cut-off and an active IBRD lending program. Lending terms include a 35-year maturity, with a 10 year grace period, and an interest charge in addition to standard IDA service charges. The interest rate is determined on an annual basis, prior to the start of IDA’s fiscal year, and remains fixed for the life of the development credit.
Incremental direct costs associated with originating development credits are capitalized and amortized over the term of the credit. Development credits are
carried in the financial statements at the face amount of the borrowers’ outstanding obligations, less an accumulated provision for debt relief and credit losses, plus the deferred origination costs.
It is the policy of IDA to place in nonaccrual status all development credits made to, or guaranteed by, a member government or to the government of a territory of a member if principal or charges with respect to any such development credit are overdue by more than six months, unless IDA’s management determines that the overdue amount will be collected in the immediate future. In addition, if loans by IBRD to a member government are placed in nonaccrual status, all development credits to that member government will also be placed in nonaccrual status by IDA. On the date a member’s development credits are placed in nonaccrual status, outstanding charges that had accrued on development credits that remained unpaid are deducted from the income from development credits of the current period. Charges on nonaccruing development credits are included in income only to the extent that payments have actually been received by IDA. If collectibility risk is considered to be particularly high at the time of arrears clearance, the member’s credits may not automatically emerge from nonaccrual status, even though the member’s eligibility for new credits may have been restored in such instances. In such instances, a decision on the restoration of accrual status is made on a case-by-case basis after a suitable period of payment or policy performance has passed from the time of arrears clearance.
The repayment obligations of IDA’s development credits funded from resources through the Fifth Replenishment are expressed in the development credit agreements in terms of 1960 dollars. In June 1987, the Executive Directors decided to value those development credits at the rate of $1.20635 per 1960 dollar on a permanent basis. Development credits funded from resources provided under the Sixth Replenishment and thereafter are denominated in SDRs; the principal amounts disbursed under such development credits are to be repaid in currency amounts currently equivalent to the SDRs disbursed.
Sale of credits under buy-down mechanism
The Investment Partnership for Polio program to fund the immunization of children in high-risk polio countries has a funding mechanism that allows the purchase of oral vaccines from the proceeds of development credits, which are subsequently converted to grant terms under IDA’s “buy-down mechanism”, upon attainment of agreed performance goals.
Pursuant to the applicable buy-down terms, IDA enters into an arrangement with third party donors who make payments on the borrower’s service and commitment charges through a trust fund until the borrower reaches agreed performance goals. At that time, IDA sells the related credits to the trust fund for an amount equivalent to the present value of the remaining cash flows of the related credits, based on appropriate discount rates. The trust fund subsequently cancels the purchased credits, thereby converting them to grant terms.
The difference between the carrying amount of the development credit sold and the amount received is recognized as an expense by way of write-off in IDA’s Statement of Income.
Development Grants
Development grants are charged to income, and a liability recognized, upon approval by IDA’s Executive Directors.
Guarantees
IDA provides guarantees for loans issued in support of projects located within a member country that are undertaken by private entities. These financial guarantees are commitments issued by IDA to guarantee payment performance by a borrower to a third party in the event that a member government (or government-owned entity) fails to perform its contractual obligations with respect to a private project.
Guarantees are regarded as outstanding when the underlying financial obligation of the borrower is incurred, and called when a guaranteed party demands payment under the guarantee. IDA would be required to perform under its guarantees if the payments guaranteed are not made by the borrower and the guaranteed party called the guarantee by demanding payment from IDA in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.
At inception of the guarantees, IDA records the fair value of the obligation to stand ready, and a corresponding asset in the Balance Sheet under Other Assets.
In the event that a guarantee is called, IDA has the contractual right to require payment from the member country that has provided the counter guarantee to IDA, on demand, or as IDA may otherwise direct.
Guarantee fee income received is deferred and amortized over the life of the guarantee.
IDA records a contingent liability for the probable losses related to guarantees outstanding. This
provision, as well as the unamortized balance of the deferred guarantee fee income, and the unamortized balance of the obligation to stand ready, are included in Accounts Payable and Miscellaneous Liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
HIPC Debt Initiative
The HIPC Debt Initiative was launched during 1996 as a joint effort by bilateral and multilateral creditors to ensure that reform efforts of HIPCs would not be put at risk by unsustainable external debt burdens.
Under the Enhanced HIPC Framework, which was approved by IDA’s Executive Directors in FY2000, implementation mechanisms include: (i) partial forgiveness of IDA debt service as it comes due, and ii) in the case of countries with a substantial amount of outstanding IBRD debt, partial refinancing by IDA resources (excluding transfers from IBRD) of outstanding IBRD debt.
Upon signature by IDA of the country specific legal notification, immediately following the decision by the Executive Directors of IDA to provide debt relief to the country (the Decision Point), the country becomes eligible for debt relief up to the nominal value equivalent of one third of the net present value of the total HIPC debt relief committed to the specific country. A Completion Point is reached when the conditions specified in the legal notification are met and the country’s other creditors have confirmed their full participation in the debt relief initiative. When the country reaches its Completion Point, IDA’s commitment to provide the total debt relief for which the country is eligible, becomes irrevocable.
MDRI
Debt relief provided under the MDRI is in addition to existing debt relief commitments provided by IDA and other creditors under the HIPC Debt Initiative. Additional resources for financing IDA's costs of providing debt relief under MDRI will be provided by donors over time under a resolution of IDA's Board of Governors adopted on April 21,
2006. These resources are added to IDA's resources and are accounted for as subscriptions and contributions. On June 23, 2006, the Executive Directors approved the implementation of the MDRI commencing July 1, 2006.
Accumulated Provision for Debt Relief and Losses on Development Credits (and Guarantees)
Accumulated Provision for HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI
The adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI is based on both
quantitative and qualitative analyses of various factors, including estimates of decision and completion point dates. IDA periodically reviews these factors and reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge against or addition to income.
Upon approval by the Executive Directors of IDA of debt relief for a country under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative the principal component of the estimated debt relief costs is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the accumulated provision for debt relief, and as a charge to income. This estimate is subject to periodic revision. The accumulated provision for HIPC Debt Initiative is reduced when debt relief is provided by IDA.
Following the Executive Directors' approval of IDA's participation in the MDRI in June 2006, IDA provided in full for the estimated probable write-off of the principal component of debt relief to be delivered under the MDRI for the HIPC eligible countries confirmed by the Executive Directors as eligible for relief at that time.
The provision is recorded as a reduction of the disbursed and outstanding development credits under the accumulated provision for debt relief and as a charge against income. The applicable development credits are written off when the country reaches the completion point and the related provision reduced accordingly.
Accumulated Provision for Losses on Development Credits (and Guarantees)
Delays in receiving payments from development credits or guarantee premiums result in present value losses to IDA since it does not charge fees or additional service charges or interest on any overdue service charges, interest and other charges. These present value losses are equal to the difference between the present value of payments of service charges and other charges made according to the credit's contractual terms and the present value of its expected future cash flows.
Management determines the appropriate level of accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees after taking into consideration the expected relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI. This accumulated provision reflects the probable losses inherent in its nonaccrual and accrual portfolios. There are several steps required to determine the appropriate level of provisions. First, the total credits and guarantees portfolio is
segregated into the accrual and nonaccrual portfolios. In both portfolios, the net exposure for each borrower (defined as the nominal amount of credits outstanding plus the present value of guarantees less the accumulated provision for debt relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative and MDRI) is then assigned a credit risk rating. IDA development credits and guarantees in the accrual portfolio are grouped according to the assigned borrower risk rating. Each risk rating is mapped to an expected default frequency based on experience. The provision required is calculated by multiplying the outstanding exposure, by the expected default frequency and by the assumed severity of the loss given default for IDA.
IDA reassesses the adequacy of the accumulated provision for losses on credits and guarantees each quarter. Adjustments to the accumulated provision are recorded as a charge against or addition to income.
Statement of Cash Flows
For the purpose of IDA's Statement of Cash Flows, cash is defined as the amount of Due from Banks— Unrestricted currencies.
Investments
Investment securities are classified based on management’s intention on the date of purchase, their nature, and IDA’s policies governing the level and use of such investments. At June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, all investment securities were held in a trading portfolio. Investment securities and related financial instruments held in IDA’s trading portfolio are carried and reported at fair value. The first-in first-out (FIFO) method is used to determine the cost of securities sold in computing the realized gains and losses on these instruments. Unrealized gains and losses for investment securities and related financial instruments held in the trading portfolio are included in income. Derivative instruments are used in liquidity management to enhance investment returns and are not designated as hedging instruments. These derivatives are carried at fair value. IDA enters into forward contracts for the sale or purchase of investment securities; these transactions are recorded at the trade date.
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements and Payable for Cash Collateral Received
Securities purchased under resale agreements, securities lent under securities lending agreements, and securities sold under repurchase agreements are
recorded at face value which approximates fair value. IDA receives securities purchased under resale agreements, monitors the fair value of the securities and, if necessary, closes out transactions and enters into new repriced transactions. The securities transferred to IDA under the repurchase and security lending arrangements and the securities transferred to counterparties under the resale agreements have not met the accounting criteria for treatment as a sale. Therefore, securities transferred under repurchase agreements and security lending arrangements are retained as assets on IDA's balance sheet, and securities received under resale agreements are not recorded on IDA's Balance Sheet.
Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing Demand Obligations on Account of Members’ Subscriptions and Contributions
Payments on these instruments are due to IDA upon demand and are held in bank accounts which bear IDA’s name. Accordingly, these instruments are carried and reported at face value as assets on the Balance Sheet.
Accounting for Derivatives
Derivative instruments are recorded on the Balance Sheet at fair value. IDA has elected not to designate any hedging relationships. Rather, all derivative instruments have been marked to fair value and all changes in fair value have been recognized in net income.
Valuation of Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments and investment securities are recorded in IDA’s financial statements at fair value.
IDA has an established and documented process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. Financial instruments for which quoted market prices are not readily available are valued based on discounted cash flow models. These models primarily use market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as yield curves, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. To ensure that the valuations are appropriate where internally-developed models are used, IDA has various controls in place, which include both internal and periodic external verification and review.
Determination of Fair Value
Summarized below are the techniques applied in determining the fair values of financial instruments.
Where available, quoted market prices are used to determine the fair value of trading securities. Examples include some government securities. For instruments for which market quotations are not available, fair values are determined based on model-based valuation techniques, whether internally-generated or vendor-supplied, that include the standard discounted cash flow method using market observable inputs such as yield curves, credit spreads, and prepayment speeds. Unless quoted prices are available, money market instruments are reported at face value which represents fair value.
Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reported at face value which represents fair value.
Derivative contracts
Derivative contracts include currency forward contracts and plain vanilla interest rate swaps valued using the standard discounted cash flow methods using market observable inputs such as yield curves, foreign exchange rates and basis spreads.
Fair Value Hierarchy
IDA applies a three-level fair value hierarchy under which financial instruments are categorized based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), the next highest priority to observable market-based inputs or inputs that are corroborated by market data (Level 2) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data (Level 3). When the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the level within which the fair value measurement is categorized is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety. Thus, a Level 3 fair value measurement may include inputs that are observable (Level 2) and unobservable (Level 3). Additionally, FAS 157 requires that the valuation techniques used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
Financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on the Condensed Balance Sheet are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as follows:
on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2:	Financial	assets and liabilities whose
values are based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in non-active markets; or pricing models for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3:	Financial	assets and liabilities whose
values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Transfers and Grants
Transfers from IBRD’s net income and grants made from the retained earnings of IFC to IDA are recorded through IDA’s Statement of Income and are receivable upon approval by the Board of Governors of IBRD and execution of a grant agreement between IFC and IDA, respectively. In addition, IDA periodically receives transfers from trust funds and private institutions which are recognized through the Income Statement upon receipt. IDA does not assign any voting rights for these transfers and grants.
Temporary restrictions relating to these transfers arise from the timing of receipt of cash, or donor imposed restrictions as to use. When the cash is received and any other restrictions on the transfers and grants are complied with, the temporary restrictions are removed.
Accounting and Reporting Developments
Effective July 1, 2008, IDA adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB’s) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157), which defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. FAS 157 also requires that the valuation techniques used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. IDA’s adoption of FAS 157 did not have any impact on its financial statements, apart from additional disclosures in the notes to the financial statements (see Note M-Fair Value of Financial Instruments).
In conjunction with the adoption of FAS 157, IDA
adopted FASB’s Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159) effective July 1, 2008. At the date of adoption, IDA did not elect to fair value any existing financial instruments under FAS 159. Subsequent to the adoption date, it is IDA’s policy to assess the appropriateness of this election on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities. The FSP increases disclosure requirements for public companies and is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008. The application of this FSP did not have a material impact on IDA’s June 30, 2009 financial statements.
Effective March 31, 2009, IDA adopted FASB's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (FAS 161). FAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities (see Note F-Derivative Instruments).
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly. This FSP provides guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased, and on the process for identifying circumstances in which a transaction is not orderly. The FSP is applicable prospectively to the financial statements for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The application of this FSP resulted in additional disclosures in the notes to the financial statements (see Note M-Fair Value of Financial Instruments).
In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 165,
Subsequent Events (FAS 165). This standard establishes principles and requirements for evaluating and reporting subsequent events. In particular, it sets forth; the period after the balance sheet date during which management shall evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements; the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements; and the
disclosures related to events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date. The application of this standard resulted in additional disclosures in IDA’s June 30, 2009 financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No.140 (FAS 166). This standard addresses the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about transfers of financial assets including: the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial performance, and cash flows; and a transferor’s continuing involvement in transferred assets. This standard is effective for IDA’s interim and annual reporting periods beginning July 1, 2010. IDA is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No.46(R) (FAS 167). This standard amends certain requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities relating to enterprises involved with variable interest entities. This standard is effective for IDA’s interim and annual reporting periods beginning July 1, 2010. IDA is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements.
NOTE B— MEMBERS’ SUBSCRIPTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Subscriptions and Contributions Paid-In: The
movement in Subscriptions and Contributions Paid-In during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008 is summarized below:
Subscriptions and Contributions Receivable: At June 30, 2009, receivables from subscriptions and contributions were $47,712 million ($33,141 million—June 30, 2008) of which $785 million ($585 million—June 30, 2008) was due and $46,927 million ($32,556 million—June 30, 2008) was not yet due.
On October 11, 2008, Estonia became the 168th member country of IDA with a subscription of $868,572.
On June 29, 2009, The Republic of Kosovo became the 169th member of IDA with a subscription of $874,956.
The Fifteenth Replenishment of IDA’s Resources (IDA15): IDA15 became effective on November 6,
2008,	following the receipt of commitments for subscriptions and contributions above the minimum threshold of SDR 9,696 million.
Cumulative Discounts on Subscriptions and Contributions: At June 30, 2009, the cumulative discounts on Subscriptions and Contributions totaled $1,626 million ($1,481 million—June 30, 2008) and comprised the following:
In millions of U.S. dollars______________________________
June 30, 2009 June 30, 2008
The allocation to Switzerland represents the discount given to Switzerland when they became a member of IDA. Switzerland had provided $580 million in co-financing grants to IDA borrowers before it became a member of IDA. These grant contributions were converted to IDA subscriptions and contributions upon membership at $512 million, representing the present value of the future reflows of the co-financing grants had they been made through IDA on IDA's repayment terms existing then.
Donor Financing of MDRI: As of June 30, 2009, 33 donors to the MDRI had issued IoCs totaling $32,390 million at the applicable MDRI and IDA15 foreign exchange reference rates covering 85% of total costs based on the updated costs estimates for the MDRI resolution. This includes firm (unqualified) donor commitments covering 18% of the total costs. Contributions provided under qualified commitments become available for IDA's commitment authority once the commitment becomes unqualified.
The following table summarizes by donor country the IoCs received under the MDRI resolution as of June 30, 2009.
October 12, 2008
The Development Committee met today, October 12, 2008, in Washington DC.
1.	Our meeting took place at a critical time for the global economy, with financial markets experiencing unprecedented turmoil. Developing and transition countries (DTCs—many of them already hit hard by current high prices for energy and essential foodstuffs—risk very serious setbacks to their efforts to improve the lives of their populations from any prolonged tightening of credit or sustained global slowdown. The poorest and most vulnerable groups risk the most serious—and in some cases permanent—damage.
2.	Against this background, we endorse the commitments made yesterday at the International Monetary and Financial Committee.
3.	We stressed that aid volumes need to be consistent with existing commitments and we called for full compliance with these commitments.
4.	In support of these concerted actions, we called on the World Bank to join with the IMF in
drawing on the full range of its resources—finance, analysis, and advice—to help DTCs strengthen their economies, maintain growth, and protect the most vulnerable groups against the impact of the current crises.
5.	The World Bank Group stands ready to help its partner countries:
•	The Bank’s recently announced $1.2 billion rapid financing facility is providing immediate help for countries coping with the impact of high food prices on the poor, and already has $850 million approved or in the pipeline. We urge countries to consider making contributions to this fund.
•	We encouraged the Bank and its partners to move forward with a planned new program—
Energy for the Poor—that would provide rapid support for countries’ efforts to strengthen social safety nets to protect the poor against the impact of high fuel bills.
•	IBRD has the financial capacity to comfortably double its annual lending to developing countries to meet additional demand from clients. IBRD lending was US$13.5 billion last fiscal year.
•	We urged IFC to explore options for helping recapitalize banks in developing countries adversely affected by the global liquidity crisis, including the possibility of a fund.
We also supported longer-term efforts beyond the immediate crisis, including:
•	Expanded help for energy-deficit countries to improve energy efficiency and improve domestic production to reduce their vulnerability to future price shocks.
•	Reforms designed to increase the World Bank’s responsiveness to its clients.
•	A new strategic framework for the World Bank to play a stronger role in helping countries deal with the causes and effects of climate change, and the recent launch of the new Climate Investment Funds.
April 26, 2009
1.	The Development Committee met today, April 26, 2009, in Washington, DC.
2.	The global economy has deteriorated dramatically since our last meeting. Developing countries face especially serious consequences, as the financial and economic crisis turns into a human and development calamity. Hard-earned progress toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is now in jeopardy. The crisis has already driven more than 50 million people into extreme poverty, particularly women and children. We must alleviate its impact on developing countries and facilitate their contribution to global recovery.
3.	The World Bank Group (WBG) and the IMF have shown leadership and complement each other in helping developing countries respond to the crisis, enabling countercyclical measures, and helping to bridge the huge financing gap, including efforts to revive private capital flows. Multilateral institutions need the resources and capacity for effective crisis response and prevention. We welcomed member countries’ commitments to a substantial increase in resources for the IMF.
4.	More needs to be done as the crisis unfolds further. We now need to translate our respective commitments, including those made by the participants at the recent London Summit, into concerted action and additional resources. We urged all donors to accelerate delivery of commitments to increase aid, and for us all to consider going beyond existing commitments.
5.	We welcomed the WBG’s efforts to ensure a timely crisis response while maintaining its focus on long-term development challenges, including those posed by climate change and the need to accelerate progress toward the MDGs. We noted the expected trebling of IBRD lending this fiscal year and the fast tracking of IDA 15 commitments. We supported the initiatives the WBG has launched and encouraged their timely implementation:
•	To protect the poorest, the Bank has set up the Vulnerability Financing Facility, including the Global Food Crisis Response Program and the new Rapid Social Response Program. IFC has also created the Microfinance Enhancement Facility to help poor borrowers.
•	To reinvigorate trade finance, IFC has expanded its Global Trade Finance Program from $1 billion to $3 billion, and has also launched its Global Trade Liquidity Program, expected to support up to $50 billion of trade over the next three years.
•	To maintain infrastructure development and create jobs, the Bank has established the Infrastructure Recovery and Assets Platform. The Bank will lend up to $15 billion a year for infrastructure, while IFC has launched the Infrastructure Crisis Facility.
•	To help support the financial sector, IFC has created the Capitalization Fund to provide additional capital for developing country banks. MIGA has extended guarantees to loans to Eastern Europe for coverage of $500 million.
Many of these initiatives are designed to mobilize more resources, both public and private. We welcomed the additional contributions that have been made and urged governments to consider further support. In addition, we called upon the WBG to update as appropriate its policies, instruments, and strategies in light of lessons learned from the crisis.
6.	We confirmed our support for making optimal use of IBRD’s balance sheet with lending of up to $100 billion over three years. Given the possibility of a slow recovery, we considered the potential need to deploy additional resources and asked the WBG to review the financial capacity, including the capital adequacy, of IBRD and IFC, and the adequacy of the concessional resources going to IDA countries, for our further consideration at the 2009 Annual Meetings.
7.	The crisis and the need for a strong multilateral response further highlight the relevance of ensuring enhanced voice and participation of developing and transition countries in the governance of the WBG. Based on agreement at our last meeting for the Board to develop principles, criteria, and proposals for Bank shareholding, we agreed to accelerate work on the second phase of the reform with a view to reaching agreement by the 2010 Spring Meetings.
This must involve all shareholders in a transparent, consultative, and inclusive process.
8.	We welcomed the Board’s review of internal governance and asked the WBG to continue the work, as part of the comprehensive approach to strengthening WBG governance and overall effectiveness.
9.	The Committee’s next meeting is scheduled for October 5, 2009, in Istanbul.