The World Bank is committed to achieving and communicating results.
In its ongoing dedication to overcoming poverty and creating opportunity for people in developing countries, the Bank is making progress both internally and in the field, and it continues to improve the way it serves its client countries. This year the Annual Report showcases the World Bank Corporate Scorecard, which includes a snapshot of country results achieved by partner countries with support from the Bank. As we are fast approaching 2015, the target year for reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the inclusion of results indicators this year is particularly relevant.
On the cover of this report, you will see some results that our partner countries achieved through Bank-supported projects around the world. These results, accomplished mostly over the past decade, illustrate the efforts of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA), which together comprise the World Bank.
We encourage you to read the chapters on the enclosed CD-ROM to learn more about the World Bank's work; its activities and outcomes in the six regions; specific results throughout the developing world over time; comprehensive lending data and a World Bank lending presentation; and full financial statements. Multiple links are provided throughout the text to connect you with even more information.
We invite you to visit the websites for the Annual Report, Corporate Scorecard—with full indicator definitions—and Results to broaden your understanding of how the World Bank works with its member countries:
This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2011, to June 30, 2012, has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—collectively known as the World Bank—in accordance with the respective bylaws of the two institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of IBRD and IDA and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, has submitted this report, together with the accompanying administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals, and percentages in figures may not add to 100. Throughout this report, the terms “World Bank" and "Bank" refer to IBRD and IDA. "World Bank Group" refers collectively to IBRD, IDA, IFC, MIGA, and ICSID.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
The past five years have been a time of testing for the World Bank Group and our ability to respond to the needs of our clients. Developing and developed countries have been challenged by the triple threat of the food, fuel, and financial crises. They've faced hunger, poverty, joblessness, and debt—an economic, social, and human crisis with political implications. Through these difficult times, the World Bank Group has stepped up to support our clients with flexibility, speed, innovation, and a focus on results. Out of challenge, we have looked for opportunity and hope.
The World Bank Group's shareholders have supported our priorities and performance with first-rate financial support. In 2007 and 2010, two record-breaking IDA replenishments raised more than $90 billion. In 2010, shareholders backed the IBRD's first capital increase in more than 20 years. Today, we have a well-resourced Bank with an AAA rating.
We have been modernizing multilateralism for a world economy with multiple poles of growth and democratizing development through greater openness and accountability, sharing knowledge and information. We are laying the foundations for expanding social accountability, fighting corruption, and building better governance. We have maintained our focus on the poor in all regions, especially Africa, emphasizing the need for fiscally responsible human safety nets to protect the most vulnerable. At the same time, we have customized new products for the middle-income countries that are increasingly important drivers of growth. Our agenda has included gender equality, food security, climate change and biodiversity, infrastructure investment, disaster prevention, financial innovation, and inclusion.
The World Bank Group has paid special attention to the central role of the private sector in development. We are supporting the enabling environment for investment and private sector activity; extending financing to small and medium-sized businesses and microfinance; supporting trade finance; promoting greater attention to public-private partnerships; and encouraging investment in countries that need it the most, especially conflict-affected and fragile states.
In fiscal 2012, the World Bank Group committed $52.6 billion in loans, grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and to private businesses. IBRD commitments totaled $20.6 billion, compared with $26.7 billion in 2011. IDA, the Bank's fund for the poorest countries, made commitments of $14.8 billion, compared with $16.3 billion in 2011.
This Annual Report incorporates the World Bank Corporate Scorecard, a focused snapshot of the Bank's overall performance. Its purpose is to help Management and the Board of Executive Directors to evaluate progress and pinpoint programs and initiatives that require improvement.
Results are at the core of the Scorecard. You can read about many of the Bank's achievements in the "World Bank for Results 2012” chapter on the CD-ROM that accompanies the printed version of this Annual Report. This year, we have placed the
majority of our content—such as the Bank's response to the global economic crisis and the six regional briefs—in electronic formats, to reflect readership preference, reduce paper, and lower costs.
One important area of the Bank's results is in "Gender Equality and Development”—the theme of World Development Report 2012. The lives of girls and women have changed dramatically over the past decades: today, more girls and women are literate, in school, in the labor force, and living longer than ever before. Yet women still fall behind in earning and productivity, pre- and post-natal care, and in the strength of their voices in society. The main message of the Report is that gender equality is both a core development objective in its own right as well as smart economics—enhancing productivity and improving prospects for the next generation. The report points to priority areas for policy going forward, including closing gender gaps in female mortality, education, access to economic opportunities, and voice and influence within society.
The World Bank's staff are tackling these and other challenges with new and innovative tools. They range from PforR (Program for Results), a lending instrument that specifically ties funding to results; to the OKR (Open Knowledge Repository), an open-access home for our research outputs and knowledge products; to SABER (Systems Approach for Better Education Results), a global information base that will help guide education system reform. This year's Annual Report showcases how these and other programs have been central to helping us better support our clients' needs over the past year.
This marks my last message to you as President of the World Bank Group. I want to thank our Governors, Board of Executive Directors, and other partners for their guidance and support in advancing the work of this vital institution. Most of all, I want to thank the Bank Group's leadership team and the committed, hard-working, and thoughtful staff. You are the ones who bring the work of development to life, in all quarters of the globe. It has been my privilege to serve with you.
I am pleased to transmit the 2012 Annual Report of the World Bank. This report highlights the achievements and effectiveness of the institution, despite a challenging global economic environment. It also underscores the importance of collaboration across the World Bank Group and working with external partners to advance our shared goal of building prosperity and eradicating poverty.
Today, the World Bank Group has a unique opportunity to accelerate inclusive and sustainable growth and social progress. We are continuing to support our clients as they respond to immediate pressures, especially through helping countries develop cost-effective social safety nets. But we are also well positioned to assist countries as they design and implement longer-term development strategies through our lending, knowledge, experience, and expertise.
I look forward to working with the Board, our partners and clients, as well as the Bank Group's dedicated staff in Washington, DC, and around the world. Our mission remains more important than ever—to help developing countries respond to immediate pressures, as well as look toward future opportunities. It is a privilege to undertake this great work.
Dr. Jim Yong Kim
President of the World Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors
Message from the Board of Executive Directors
The 25 resident Executive Directors are responsible for the conduct of the Bank's general operations under delegated powers from the Board of Governors. As provided in the Articles of Agreement, five Executive Directors are appointed by single countries having the largest number of shares, with the rest elected by other member countries to form constituencies in an election process every two years.
The Board considers and decides on the International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan and guarantee proposals and the International Development Association (IDA) credit, grant, and guarantee proposals made by the President. Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations of the Bank and its strategic direction, representing the evolving perspectives of member countries on the global role of the Bank, as well as clients' experience. They are also responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative budget, and The World Bank Annual Report on fiscal year results, operations, and policies of the Bank.
Executive Directors also serve on one or more standing committees: the Audit Committee, Budget Committee, Committee on Development Effectiveness, Committee on Governance and Administrative Matters, and Human Resources Committee. The Executive Directors'Steering Committee, an informal advisory body, also meets regularly.
Directors periodically visit member countries to review Bank assistance in progress. They meet a wide range of stakeholders, including government officials, beneficiaries, representatives of nongovernmental organizations, other development partners, and the business community, as well as Bank staff. In October 2011 and February and May of 2012, Directors visited countries in Europe and Central Asia, South Asia, and West Africa.
From left to right (standing) Rogerio Studart, Ingrid Hoven, Agapito Mendes Dias, Merza Hasan, Piero Cipollone, Jorg Frieden, Vadim Grishin, Marie-Lucie Morin, Shaolin Yang, Marta Garcia Jauregui, Hekinus Manao, Sid Ahmed Dib (Alternate), Ruud Treffers, Konstantin Huber, In-Kang Cho (Alternate), Hassan Ahmed Taha, Mukesh N, Prasad; (seated) Ian Solomon, Felix Alberto Camarasa, Ambroise Fayolle, Susanna Moorehead, Abdulrahman Almofadhi, Anna Brandt, Renosi Mokate, Nobumitsu Hayashi,
Photo: FrankVincent
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) reports directly to the Board of Executive Directors, providing independent advice on the relevance, sustainability, and impact of operations. The Board also monitors the compliance of projects with operational policies and procedures through the independent Inspection Panel, which also reports to the Board (See http://worldbank.org/ieg and http://worldbank.org/ inspectionpanel)
Board Achievements of 2012
Executive Directors continued to exercise their oversight of the institution amid a challenging global economic outlook, emphasizing reforms to advance poverty reduction and inclusive growth, as well as support for crisis resilience. The Board considered a number of documents key to these concerns. These documents included the World Development Report2012: Gender Equality and Development, and the report "Safety Nets Work: During Crisis and Prosperity," which concentrates on improving the design and efficiency of existing social safety net programs and creating new ones where needed. Executive Directors also looked forward to the World Developmen t Report 2013: Jobs.
Directors discussed progress toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the Global Monitoring Report: Food Prices, Nutrition, and the MDGs. In addition, they discussed key reform efforts, such as the Open Data, Open Knowledge,
Open Solutions Initiative described in the report"Update on the Bank's Business
Modernization: Results, Openness, and Accountability." The Board also gave its attention to the ongoing ministerial-level dialogue on sustainable development in support of the Rio+20 and G-20 processes, and welcomed the report "The World Bank Group Innovations in Leveraging the Private Sector for Development."
Executive Directors further supported drought and famine relief in the Horn of Africa with funds from the Crisis Response Window and affirmed their commitment to implementing the New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States, and to the MDGs, especially in lagging regions, fragile states, and for vulnerable and excluded populations.
Executive Directors selected Dr. Jim Yong Kim as President for a five-year term beginning on July 1, 2012. Dr. Kim is President of the World Bank Group and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors.
The Board approved approximately $35.3 billion in financial assistance in fiscal 2012, comprising about $20.6 billion in IBRD lending and $14.8 billion in IDA support. Executive Directors also reviewed 49 country assistance strategy products, 41 of which were prepared jointly with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The Board approved an administrative budget for the World Bank of just under $1.9 billion for fiscal 2013. (See http://worldbank.org/boards.)
The World Bank's Commitment to Results: The Corporate Scorecard
The Corporate Scorecard provides information on the Bank's overall performance and results achieved by its clients. The Scorecard facilitates dialogue between Management and the Board on progress made and areas that need attention. Introduced two years ago, the four-tier Scorecard covers the full spectrum of IBRD and IDA activities.
Tier I provides the Global Development Context—the indicators show the long-term development outcomes that countries are achieving, and provide the context and direction for the Bank's work. These high-level outcomes cannot be attributed directly to the Bank, because countries and their development partners all contribute to these achievements over the long term through a combination of multisector interventions, actions, and policy decisions. These indicators are also affected by external factors such as global crises. Tier II is Country Results Supported by the Bank. This tier highlights development results that countries have achieved with Bank support. Tier III, Development Outcomes and Operational Effectiveness, provides information on the effectiveness of the Bank's operations and services. Organizational Effectiveness and Modernization, Tier IV, assesses how well the Bank is functioning and adapting to better support countries in achieving results. In addition, the Bank operates a comprehensive web-based results reporting system.
Tier I: The latest data on poverty shows that for the first time, in every region of the developing world, the number of poor declined, and despite recent crises, global poverty overall continued to fall. A preliminary World Bank survey-based estimate for 2010 on a much smaller sample indicates that the global poverty rate at $1.25 a day fell to less than half its 1990 value indicating the first Millennium Development Goal (MDG) target of cutting the extreme poverty rate to half its 1990 level was already achieved before 2015. Developing countries hit numerous other strides. Average annual GDP per capita in developing countries increased. Gender parity in primary and secondary schools improved in 2010. By 2010, nearly 86 percent of the world's population had access to improved drinking water.
These global trends mask significant variations between and within countries. The poorest population groups remain vulnerable, and only limited progress has been made in employment, governance, and biodiversity, as well as other priority areas. Maternal mortality and child mortality are falling significantly short of their MDG targets. The food, fuel, and financial crises over the past four years at times caused sharp negative impacts on vulnerable populations and slowed the rate of poverty reduction in some countries.
Tier II: The Bank provides financial resources, shares knowledge and analysis, supports institutions and country capacity, and facilitates partnerships and knowledge exchanges among developing countries to help them address development challenges. The Bank supports countries' national development priorities, which evolve as country circumstances change.
As a contributor and partner to country development programs, the Bank, with offices in more than 120 countries, often plays a coordinating and convening role for development partners. Tier II includes aggregate data collected through the standardized sector indicators. The data show country results supported by Bank operations. Results pertaining to human development, infrastructure, and access to services for the poor and the vulnerable, as well as for creating opportunities for growth, are included. Bank support has contributed to significant results achieved by its clients in education and health, especially those related to women and girls; in the sustainable development of infrastructure, agriculture, and an environment for growth and access; and in finance and private sector development.
Tier III: The Bank's policies, systems, and processes reinforce its emphasis on results.
They include quality assurance; real-time monitoring of results and performance; and systematic self-evaluation, complemented by ex post independent evaluation of strategies and activities by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). This tier shows the overall success of Bank activities in achieving their development goals, as well as the Bank's operations effectiveness, including the quality and results orientation of its operations and knowledge activities, the performance of its lending portfolio, the mainstreaming of gender in its operational work, client feedback, and its use of country systems.
Tier IV: The Bank continues to work to improve its organizational efficiency, to better align the skills and capacity of its staff with its strategic priorities, and to implement its modernization agenda in order to become more responsive and accountable to its stakeholders. The Bank has been steadily improving its organizational effectiveness. With a real flat budget since fiscal 2006, it has made continuous improvements in the way it allocates and uses its resources.
The World Bank Group Affiliates
The institutions of the World Bank Group are the International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA), which together comprise the World Bank; the International Finance Corporation (IFC); the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA); and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). These organizations work together and complement each other's activities to achieve their shared goal of reducing poverty and improving lives. Collaboration among the affiliates is increasing as the Bank works more closely with the private sector. Each institution discloses its fiscal year highlights in a separate annual report.
The Role of IBRD
This global development cooperative is owned by 188 countries. IBRD works with its members to achieve equitable and sustainable economic growth in their national economies and to find solutions to pressing regional and global problems in economic development and in other important areas, such as environmental sustainability. It pursues its overriding goal—to overcome poverty and improve standards of living—primarily by providing loans, risk management products, and expertise on development-related disciplines and by coordinating responses to regional and global challenges. (See http://www.worldbank.org/ibrd.)
IBRD Financial Commitments and Services
New lending commitments by IBRD were $20.6 billion, including 93 operations, in fiscal 2012—significantly higher than the historical average ($13.5 billion in fiscal 2005-08), but less than the record $44.2 billion in fiscal 2010 when the crisis peaked, and less than the $26.7 billion in fiscal 2011. Europe and Central Asia ($6.2 billion) and Latin America and the Caribbean ($6.2 billion) received the largest shares of IBRD's new lending, followed by East Asia and Pacific ($5.4 billion). Commitments to the Middle East and North Africa ($1.4 billion), South Asia ($1.2 billion), and Africa ($147 million) followed. Among sectors, Public Administration, Law, and Justice received the largest commitment ($5.4 billion), followed byTransportation ($3.4 billion), Energy and Mining ($2.8 billion), and Health and Other Social Services ($2.5 billion).The
themes receiving the highest share of commitments were Financial and Private Sector Development (16 percent), followed by Public Sector Governance (13 percent) and Human Development (13 percent).
IBRD also offers financial products that allow clients to efficiently fund their development programs and manage risks related to currency, interest rates, commodity prices, and natural disasters. In fiscal 2012, the Bank'sTreasury executed U.S. dollar equivalent (USDeq) 2.5 billion in hedging transactions on behalf of member countries, including USDeq 2.3 billion in interest rate hedges and USDeq 149 million in currency hedges (all local currency conversions). It also executed swap transactions totaling USDeq 9.5 billion to manage the risks of its balance sheet. In addition, Treasury executed USDeq 269 million in swaps on behalf of the International Finance Facility for Immunisation.
IBRD Resources
IBRD issues bonds in international capital markets and provides long-term loans to middle-income countries. In fiscal 2012, IBRD raised USDeq 38.4 billion by issuing bonds in 23 currencies. Because of its standing in the capital markets and its financial strength, IBRD was able to borrow these large volumes on very favorable terms despite volatile market conditions. The Bank's strength is based on IBRD's prudent financial policies and practices, which help maintain its AAA credit rating. IBRD's equity primarily comprises paid-in capital and reserves. Under the terms of the general and selective capital increase resolutions approved by the Board of Governors on March 16,2011, subscribed capital is expected to increase by $86.2 billion, of which $5.1 billion will be paid-in over a five-year period. As of June 30,
2012, the cumulative increase in subscribed capital and the related paid-in amounts in connection with these capital increase resolutions totaled $15.3 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of fiscal 2012 allocable net income, the Executive Directors approved the addition of $390 million to the general reserve, and recommended to the Board of Governors the transfer of $608 million to IDA.
Consistent with IBRD's development mandate, the principal risk it takes is the country credit risk inherent in its portfolio of loans and guarantees. One summary measure of the Bank's risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans and long-term investment assets, which is closely managed in line with the Bank's financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 27.0 percent as of June 30,2012.
The Role of IDA
The World Bank's fund for the poorest countries, IDA is the largest multilateral channel of concessional financing to the world. Its funding supports countries'efforts to boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living conditions of the poor. In fiscal 2012,81 countries were eligible to receive IDA assistance.
(See http://www.worldbank.org/ida)
IDA Financial Commitments
IDA commitments amounted to $14.8 billion in fiscal 2012, including $12.1 billion in credits, $2.2 billion in grants, and $0.4 billion in guarantees. The largest share of resources was committed to Africa, which received $7.4 billion. South Asia ($5.3
billion) and East Asia and Pacific ($1.2 billion) also received large shares of committed funding, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean ($0.4 billion), Europe and Central Asia ($0.4 billion), and Middle East and North Africa ($0.1 billion). India ($2.7 billion) and Nigeria ($1.3 billion) were the largest country recipients.
Commitments for Infrastructure, including the sectors Energy and Mining; Transportation; Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection; and Information and Communications, reached $5.1 billion. Significant support was also committed to the Education sector and Health and Other Social Services sector (combined $3.4 billion), the Public Administration, Law, and Justice sector ($3.3 billion), and the Agriculture sector ($2 billion). The themes receiving the highest share of commitments were Rural Development (24 percent), Human Development (16 percent), and Urban Development (13 percent).
IDA Resources
IDA is largely financed by contributions from donor governments. Additional financing comes from transfers from IBRD's net income, grants from IFC, and borrowers'repayment of earlier IDA credits. Every three years, donor governments and representatives of borrower countries meet to discuss IDA's policies and priorities, and to agree on the volume of new resources required to fund its lending program over the subsequent three fiscal years.
Under the 16th Replenishment (IDA 16), which covers fiscal years 2012-14, total resources (revised to reflect IDA's currency hedging and updated subsequent to the replenishment discussions) amount to SDR (Special Drawing Rights) 33.9 billion (equivalent to $50.9 billion). This figure includes donor resources of SDR 17.6 billion (equivalent to $26.4 billion) from 51 countries, 7 of which are new donors; donor compensation for debt forgiveness of SDR 3.5 billion (equivalent to $5.3 billion); credit reflows of SDR 8.9 billion (equivalent to $13.4 billion), including funds from accelerated credit repayments and the differentiation of lending terms for IDA's blend and gap borrowers; transfers from within the World Bank Group, including associated investment income of SDR 1.9 billion (equivalent to $2.8 billion); and balances carried forward from prior replenishments of SDR 2.0 billion (equivalent to $2.9 billion).
The US$ equivalents are based on the reference exchange rate for IDA16, and the amounts are provided for illustrative purposes only, because IDA cash flows are hedged to SDRs, the currency in which IDA's commitment authority is recorded.
The overarching theme and main focus of I DA 16 is the delivery of development results. Special themes include crisis response, gender, climate change, and fragile and conflict-affected states. IDA16 includes funding for a dedicated Crisis Response Window to help low-income countries deal with the impact of natural disasters and severe economic shocks.
© 2012 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development | The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433 Telephone: 202-473-1000 Internet: www.worldbank.org
Some rights reserved 1 2 3 4 15 14 13 12
This work is a product of the staff ofThe World Bank. Note that The World Bank does not necessarily own each component of the content included in the work. The World Bank therefore does not warrant that the use of the content contained in the work will not infringe on the rights of third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such infringement rests solely with you.
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are specifically reserved.
Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license (CC BY 3.0) http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0. Under the Creative Commons Attribution license, you are free to copy, distribute, transmit, and adapt this work, including for commercial purposes, under the following conditions:
Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World Bank. 2012. The World Bank Annual Report 2012. Washington, DC: World Bank. DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9568-4. License: Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0.
Translations—If you create a translation of this work, please add the following disclaimer along with the attribution: This translation was not created by The World Bank and should not be considered an official World Bank translation. The World Bank shall not be liable for any content or error in this translation.
All queries on rights and licenses should be addressed to the Office of the Publisher, The World Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@ worldbank.org.
ISBN (paper): 978-0-8213-9568-4 ISBN (electronic): 978-0-8213-9737-4 DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9568-4
The World Bank Annual Report 2012 Team
The World Bank Annual Report 2012
Office of the Publisher, External Affairs
Team Leader and Editor
Cathy Lips
Assistant Editor
Daniel Nikolits
Editorial Production
Susan Graham
Print Production
Denise Bergeron
Design, Typesetting, and Printing
The World Bank Annual Report 2012 was typeset by Hank Isaac and BMWW. Cover and interior design by Hank Isaac of River Rock Creative. Printed in Hong Kong SAR, China, by Asia Pacific Offset.
The World Bank InfoShop
The World Bank InfoShop in Washington, DC, is a retail bookstore and resource center offering access to information on World Bank projects and programs to the public. The InfoShop carries books from more than 700 publishers, in addition to World Bank Publications. The InfoShop also hosts several well-known and emerging authors at events each month.
Located at the corner of 18th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20433 Monday-Friday, 9:30-5:30 Telephone: 202-458-4500 Facsimile: 202-522-1500 www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Eco-Audit
The World Bank is committed to preserving natural resources. The Office of the Publisher has chosen to print The World Bank Annual Report 2012 on chlorine-free, FSC-certified paper in accordance with the recommended standards for paper usage set by the Green Press Initiative, a nonprofit program supporting publishers in using fiber that is not sourced from endangered forests. For more information, visit: www.greenpressinitiative.org.
(Vtjrispn
CL press
World Bank Regions, Country Offices, and Borrower Eligibility
The World Bank today operates out of more than 120 offices worldwide. Increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better understand, work more effectively with, and provide more timely service to its partners in client countries. Eighty-eight percent of Country Directors/Country Managers, and 39 percent of staff, are based in country offices.
World Bank Mission Statement
Our dream is a world free of poverty.
To fight poverty with passion and professionalism for lasting results.
To help people help themselves and their environment by providing resources, sharing knowledge, building capacity, and forging partnerships in the public and private sectors.
To be an excellent institution able to attract, excite, and nurture diverse and committed staff with exceptional skills who know how to listen and learn.
Our Principles
Client centered, working in partnership, accountable for quality results, dedicated to financial integrity and cost-effectiveness, inspired and innovative.
Our Values
Personal honesty, integrity, commitment; working together in teams—with openness and trust; empowering others and respecting differences; encouraging risk-taking and responsibility; enjoying our work and our families.